Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music
Prafulla Dhariwal * 1 Heewoo Jun * 1 Christine Payne * 1 Jong Wook Kim 1 Alec Radford 1 Ilya Sutskever 1

arXiv:2005.00341v1 [eess.AS] 30 Apr 2020

Abstract
We introduce Jukebox, a model that generates
music with singing in the raw audio domain. We
tackle the long context of raw audio using a multiscale VQ-VAE to compress it to discrete codes,
and modeling those using autoregressive Transformers. We show that the combined model at
scale can generate high-fidelity and diverse songs
with coherence up to multiple minutes. We can
condition on artist and genre to steer the musical
and vocal style, and on unaligned lyrics to make
the singing more controllable. We are releasing
thousands of non cherry-picked samples, along
with model weights and code.

1. Introduction
Music is an integral part of human culture, existing from the
earliest periods of human civilization and evolving into a
wide diversity of forms. It evokes a unique human spirit in
its creation, and the question of whether computers can ever
capture this creative process has fascinated computer scientists for decades. We have had algorithms generating piano
sheet music (Hiller Jr & Isaacson, 1957; Moorer, 1972;
Hadjeres et al., 2017; Huang et al., 2017), digital vocoders
generating a singer’s voice (Bonada & Serra, 2007; Saino
et al., 2006; Blaauw & Bonada, 2017) and also synthesizers
producing timbres for various musical instruments (Engel
et al., 2017; 2019). Each captures a specific aspect of music
generation: melody, composition, timbre, and the human
voice singing. However, a single system to do it all remains
elusive.
The field of generative models has made tremendous
progress in the last few years. One of the aims of generative modeling is to capture the salient aspects of the data
and to generate new instances indistinguishable from the
true data The hypothesis is that by learning to produce the
data we can learn the best features of the data1 . We are
surrounded by highly complex distributions in the visual,
audio, and text domain, and in recent years we have devel*
Equal contribution 1 OpenAI, San Francisco. Correspondence
to: <jukebox@openai.com>.

oped advances in text generation (Radford et al.), speech
generation (Xie et al., 2017) and image generation (Brock
et al., 2019; Razavi et al., 2019). The rate of progress in
this field has been rapid, where only a few years ago we
had algorithms producing blurry faces (Kingma & Welling,
2014; Goodfellow et al., 2014) but now we now can generate high-resolution faces indistinguishable from real ones
(Zhang et al., 2019b).
Generative models have been applied to the music generation task too. Earlier models generated music symbolically
in the form of a pianoroll, which specifies the timing, pitch,
velocity, and instrument of each note to be played. (Yang
et al., 2017; Dong et al., 2018; Huang et al., 2019a; Payne,
2019; Roberts et al., 2018; Wu et al., 2019). The symbolic
approach makes the modeling problem easier by working
on the problem in the lower-dimensional space. However, it
constrains the music that can be generated to being a specific
sequence of notes and a fixed set of instruments to render
with. In parallel, researchers have been pursuing the nonsymbolic approach, where they try to produce music directly
as a piece of audio. This makes the problem more challenging, as the space of raw audio is extremely high dimensional
with a high amount of information content to model. There
has been some success, with models producing piano pieces
either in the raw audio domain (Oord et al., 2016; Mehri
et al., 2017; Yamamoto et al., 2020) or in the spectrogram
domain (Vasquez & Lewis, 2019). The key bottleneck is
that modeling the raw audio directly introduces extremely
long-range dependencies, making it computationally challenging to learn the high-level semantics of music. A way to
reduce the difficulty is to learn a lower-dimensional encoding of the audio with the goal of losing the less important
information but retaining most of the musical information.
This approach has demonstrated some success in generating short instrumental pieces restricted to a set of a few
instruments (Oord et al., 2017; Dieleman et al., 2018).
In this work, we show that we can use state-of-the-art deep
generative models to produce a single system capable of generating diverse high-fidelity music in the raw audio domain,
with long-range coherence spanning multiple minutes. Our
approach uses a hierarchical VQ-VAE architecture (Razavi
1
Richard Feynmann famously said, “What I cannot create, I
do not understand”

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music

et al., 2019) to compress audio into a discrete space, with
a loss function designed to retain the maximum amount of
musical information, while doing so at increasing levels
of compression. We use an autoregressive Sparse Transformer (Child et al., 2019; Vaswani et al., 2017) trained with
maximum-likelihood estimation over this compressed space,
and also train autoregressive upsamplers to recreate the lost
information at each level of compression.
We show that our models can produce songs from highly
diverse genres of music like rock, hip-hop, and jazz. They
can capture melody, rhythm, long-range composition, and
timbres for a wide variety of instruments, as well as the
styles and voices of singers to be produced with the music. We can also generate novel completions of existing
songs. Our approach allows the option to influence the
generation process: by swapping the top prior with a conditional prior, we can condition on lyrics to tell the singer
what to sing, or on midi to control the composition. We
release our model weights and training and sampling code
at https://github.com/openai/jukebox.

2. Background
We consider music in the raw audio domain represented as
a continuous waveform x ∈ [−1, 1]T , where the number
of samples T is the product of the audio duration and the
sampling rate typically ranging from 16 kHz to 48 kHz. For
music, CD quality audio, 44.1 kHz samples stored in 16
bit precision, is typically enough to capture the range of
frequencies perceptible to humans. As an example, a fourminute-long audio segment will have an input length of ∼10
million, where each position can have 16 bits of information.
In comparison, a high-resolution RGB image with 1024 ×
1024 pixels has an input length of ∼3 million, and each
position has 24 bits of information. This makes learning
a generative model for music extremely computationally
demanding with increasingly longer durations; we have to
capture a wide range of musical structures from timbre to
global coherence while simultaneously modeling a large
amount of diversity.
2.1. VQ-VAE
To make this task feasible, we use the VQ-VAE (Oord et al.,
2017; Dieleman et al., 2018; Razavi et al., 2019) to compress
raw audio to a lower-dimensional space. A one-dimensional
VQ-VAE learns to encode an input sequence x = hxt iTt=1
using a sequence of discrete tokens z = hzs ∈ [K]iSs=1 ,
where K denotes the vocabulary size and we call the ratio
T /S the hop length. It consists of an encoder E(x) which
encodes x into a sequence of latent vectors h = hhs iSs=1 ,
a bottleneck that quantizes hs 7→ ezs by mapping each hs
to its nearest vector ezs from a codebook C = {ek }K
k=1 ,
and a decoder D(e) that decodes the embedding vectors

back to the input space. It is thus an auto-encoder with a
discretization bottleneck. The VQ-VAE is trained using the
following objective:
L = Lrecons + Lcodebook + βLcommit
P
kxt − D(ezt )k22
Lrecons = T1
t
P
Lcodebook = S1
ksg [hs ] − ezs k22
s
P
Lcommit = S1
khs − sg [ezs ]k22

(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)

s

where sg denotes the stop-gradient operation, which passes
zero gradient during backpropagation. The reconstruction
loss Lrecons penalizes for the distance between the input x
b = D(ez ), and Lcodebook peand the reconstructed output x
nalizes the codebook for the distance between the encodings
h and their nearest neighbors ez from the codebook. To
stabilize the encoder, we also add Lcommit to prevent the
encodings from fluctuating too much, where the weight β
controls the amount of contribution of this loss. To speed up
training, the codebook loss Lcodebook instead uses EMA updates over the codebook variables. Razavi et al. (2019)
extends this to a hierarchical model where they train a single encoder and decoder but break up the latent sequence
h into a multi-level representation [h(1) , · · · , h(L) ] with decreasing sequence lengths, each learning its own codebook
C (l) . They use non-autoregressive encoder-decoders and
jointly train all levels with a simple mean-squared loss.

3. Music VQ-VAE
Inspired by the results from the hierarchical VQ-VAE model
(Razavi et al., 2019) for images, we consider applying the
same technique to model raw audio using three different
levels of abstraction, as illustrated in Figure 1. At each level,
we use residual networks consisting of WaveNet-style noncausal 1-D dilated convolutions, interleaved with downsampling and upsampling 1-D convolutions to match different
hop lengths. A detailed description of the architecture is
provided in Appendix B.1. We make a number of modifications to our VQ-VAE compared to the ones in (Oord et al.,
2017; Razavi et al., 2019), as described in the following
subsections.
3.1. Random restarts for embeddings
VQ-VAEs are known to suffer from codebook collapse,
wherein all encodings get mapped to a single or few embedding vectors while the other embedding vectors in the
codebook are not used, reducing the information capacity
of the bottleneck. To prevent this, we use random restarts:
when the mean usage of a codebook vector falls below a
threshold, we randomly reset it to one of the encoder outputs from the current batch. This ensures all vectors in the

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music
Codebook ek

Encode

Vector
Quantization

Codebook
Lookup

Decode

Encode

Vector
Quantization

Codebook
Lookup

Decode

Encode

Vector
Quantization

Codebook
Lookup

Decode

xt

ht = E(xt)

zt = argmink ǁ ht – ek ǁ

x̂t = D(ezt)

ezt

Figure 1. We first train three separate VQ-VAE models with different temporal resolutions. At each level, the input audio is segmented
and encoded into latent vectors ht , which are then quantized to the closest codebook vectors ezt . The code zt is a discrete representation
of the audio that we later train our prior on. The decoder takes the sequence of codebook vectors and reconstructs the audio. The top
level learns the highest degree of abstraction, since it is encoding longer audio per token while keeping the codebook size the same.
Audio can be reconstructed using the codes at any one of the abstraction levels, where the least abstract bottom-level codes result in the
highest-quality audio, as shown in Figure 4. For the detailed structure of each component, see Figure 7.

codebook are being used and thus have a gradient to learn
from, mitigating codebook collapse.

we use the sum of the spectral losses Lspec calculated over
multiple STFT parameters that trade-off time and frequency
resolutions (Yamamoto et al., 2020).

3.2. Separated Autoencoders
When using the hierarchical VQ-VAE from (Razavi et al.,
2019) for raw audio, we observed that the bottlenecked top
level is utilized very little and sometimes experiences a complete collapse, as the model decides to pass all information
through the less bottlenecked lower levels. To maximize
the amount of information stored at each level, we simply
train separate autoencoders with varying hop lengths. Discrete codes from each level can be treated as independent
encodings of the input at different levels of compression.
3.3. Spectral Loss
When using only the sample-level reconstruction loss, the
model learns to reconstruct low frequencies only. To capture
mid-to-high frequencies, we add a spectral loss which is
defined as
Lspec = k|STFT(x)| − |STFT(b
x)|k2
It encourages the model to match the spectral components
without paying attention to phase which is more difficult
to learn. This is similar to the use of power loss (Oord
et al., 2018) and spectral convergence (Arık et al., 2018b)
when training parallel decoders for raw audio. One difference between the latter approach and ours is that we are no
longer optimizing the spectral signal-to-noise ratio; dividing
by the magnitude of the signal results in numerical instability for mostly silent inputs. To prevent the model from
overfitting to a particular choice of the STFT parameters,

4. Music Priors and Upsamplers
After training the VQ-VAE, we need to learn a prior p(z)
over the compressed space to generate samples. We break
up the prior model as
p(z) = p(ztop , zmiddle , zbottom )
top

= p(z )p(z

middle

top

|z )p(z

(5)
bottom

|z

middle

top

,z )

(6)

and train separate models for the top-level prior p(ztop ), and
upsamplers p(zmiddle |ztop ) and p(zbottom |zmiddle , ztop ). Each
of these is an autoregressive modeling problem in the discrete token space produced by the VQ-VAE. We use Transformers with sparse attention (Vaswani et al., 2017; Child
et al., 2019) as they are currently the SOTA in autoregressive
modeling. We propose a simplified version which we call
the Scalable Transformer, that is easier to implement and
scale (see Appendix A for details).
For the upsamplers, we need to provide the autoregressive Transformers with conditioning information from the
codes of the upper levels. To do so, we use a deep residual WaveNet (Xie et al., 2017) followed by an upsampling
strided convolution and a layer norm (Ba et al., 2016), and
add the output as extra positional information to the embeddings of the current level. We condition the lower levels
only on the chunk of upper level codes that correspond to
the same segment of raw audio.

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music

At each level, we use Transformers over the same context
length of discrete codes, which correspond to increasing
the raw audio length with larger hop lengths, and modeling
longer temporal dependencies at the higher levels while
keeping the same computational footprint for training each
level. As our VQ-VAE is convolutional, we can use the
same VQ-VAE to produce codes for arbitrary lengths of
audio.

Conditioning
Information

Top-Level Prior

Middle Upsampler

4.1. Artist, Genre, and Timing Conditioning
Our generative model can be made more controllable by
providing additional conditioning signals while training. For
our first models, we provide artist and genre labels for the
songs. This has two advantages: first, it reduces the entropy
of the audio prediction, so the model is able to achieve
better quality in any particular style. Second, at generation
time, we are able to steer the model to generate in a style
of our choosing. Additionally, we attach a timing signal
for each segment at training time. This signal includes the
total duration of the piece, the start time of that particular
sample and how much fraction of the song that has elapsed.
This allows the model to learn audio patterns that depend
on the overall structure, such as spoken or instrumental
introductions and applause at the end of a piece.

Bottom Upsampler

VQ-VAE Decoder

(a) Ancestral sampling: Priors for the VQ-VAE codes are trained
using a cascade of Transformer models, shown in blue. Each model
takes conditioning information such as genre, artist, timing, and
lyrics, and the upsampler models are also conditioned on the codes
from the upper levels. To generate music, the VQ-VAE codes are
sampled from top to bottom using the conditioning information
for control, after which the VQ-VAE decoder can convert the
bottom-level codes to audio.

4.2. Lyrics Conditioning

Providing lyrics for chunks of audio: Our dataset includes
song-level lyrics, but to make the task easier we train on
shorter (24 sec) chunks of audio. To provide the lyrics cor-

new samples

(b) Windowed sampling: To generate music longer than the
model’s context length (12 in this figure), we repeatedly sample
continuations at each level, using overlapping windows of previous
codes as the context. The overlap amount is a hyperparameter, and
the figure shows an example of 75% overlap with hop length 3.

Generate

Decode

Lyrics-to-singing (LTS) task: The conditioning signal
only includes the text of the lyrics, without timing or vocalisation information. We thus have to model the temporal
alignment of lyrics and singing, the artists voice and also
the diversity of ways one can sing a phrase depending on the
pitch, melody, rhythm and even genre of the song. The conditioning data isn’t precise as the lyrics data often contains
textual references to repeated sections like “chorus” or mismatching portions of lyrics with the corresponding music.
There is also no separation between lead vocals, accompanying vocals and the background music in target audio. This
makes the Lyrics-to-singing (LTS) task significantly more
challenging than the corresponding Text-to-speech (TTS)
task.

time

Encode

While the conditioned models above are able to generate
songs of diverse genres and artistic styles, singing voices
generated by those models, while often sung in a compelling
melody, are mostly composed of babbling, rarely producing
recognizable English words. In order to be able to control
the generative model with lyrics, we provide more context
at training time by conditioning the model on the lyrics
corresponding to each audio segment, allowing the model
to produce singing simultaneosly with the music.

Primed Audio

Generated Audio

(c) Primed sampling: The model can generate continuations of
an existing audio signal by converting it into the VQ-VAE codes
and sampling the subsequent codes in each level.
Figure 2. Sampling methods for generating music

responding to the audio during training, we began with a
simple heuristics of aligning the characters of the lyrics to
linearly span the duration of each song, and pass a fixed-side
window of characters centered around the current segment
during training. While this simple strategy of linear alignment worked surprisingly well, we found that it fails for
certain genres such as hip-hop with fast lyrics. To address
this, we use Spleeter (Hennequin et al., 2019) to extract vocals from each song and run NUS AutoLyricsAlign (Gupta
et al., 2020) on the extracted vocals to obtain a word-level
alignments of the lyrics, allowing us to more accurately
provide the lyrics for a given chunk of audio. We choose a
large enough window so that the actual lyrics have a high
probability of being inside the window.
Encoder-decoder model: We use an encoder-decoder style
model to condition on the characters of the lyrics, with
the encoder producing features from the lyrics which are
attended to by the decoder which produces the top level
music tokens. The lyrics encoder is a Transformer with an
autoregressive modeling loss for lyrics, and its last level is
used as features of the lyrics. In the music decoder, we interleave a few additional layers with encoder-decoder attention
where the queries from the music tokens are only allowed
to attend to keys and values from the lyrics tokens. These
layers attend on the activation from the last layer of the
lyrics encoder (see Figure 8c). In Figure 3, we see that the
attention pattern learned by one of these layers corresponds
to the alignment between the lyrics and the singing.
4.3. Decoder Pretraining
To reduce computation required to train the lyrics conditional model, we use a pretrained unconditional top-level
prior as our decoder and introduce the lyrics encoder using
model surgery (Berner et al., 2019). We initialize the output
projection weights in the MLP and the attention layers of
these residual blocks to zeros (Zhang et al., 2019a), so that
the added layers perform the identity function at initialization. Thus, at initialization the model behaves identically
as the pretrained decoder, but there is still a gradient with
respect to the encoder state and parameters2 , allowing the
model to learn to use the encoder.
4.4. Sampling
After we have trained our VQ-VAE, upsamplers, and top
level priors, we can then use them to sample novel songs.
Ancestral sampling: We first generate the top level codes
one token at a time by the usual ancestral sampling process
(see Figure 2a): generating the first token, then passing all
2

The gradient also needs to break symmetry with the encoder
output features, which is the case here since the weights of the
input projections in the attention are not zero.

Lyrics token position

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music
500

1.0

400

0.8

300

0.6

200

0.4

100

0.2

0

0

1600

3200

4800

Music token position

6400

8000

0.0

Figure 3. Lyrics-singing alignment learned by one of the encoderdecoder attention layers. The x-axis is the position of music
queries, and the y-axis is the position of lyric keys. The positions
attended to by the decoder correspond to the characters being sung.

previously generated tokens into the model as inputs and
outputting the next token conditioned on all previous tokens.
We then run our conditioning wavenet on the top level codes
to produce the conditioning information for the middle level
and sample ancestrally from it too, and do the same for the
bottom level.
Windowed sampling: To sample segments longer than the
context length, we use windowed sampling, where we move
ahead our sampling window by half our context and continue sampling conditioned on this half context (See Figure
2b). We can trade off speed for quality by using a smaller
hop length here.
Primed sampling: Instead of sampling the entire token
sequence from the model, we can also run a forward pass
of the VQ-VAE to obtain the top, middle, and bottom level
codes corresponding to a segment from an actual song, as
shown in Figure 2c. We can use these as the initial tokens in
our ancestral sampling process and continue sampling from
these to produce novel completions of the song.

5. Experiments
5.1. Dataset
We scraped a new dataset of 1.2 million songs (600k of
which in English), paired with the lyrics and metadata from
LyricWiki (LyricWiki). The metadata includes artist, album,
genre, and year of the release, along with common moods or
playlist keywords associated with each song. We train on 32
bit, 44.1 kHz raw audio and perform data augmentation by
randomly downmixing the right and left channels to produce
mono channel audio.
5.2. Training Details
For the music VQ-VAE, we use 3 levels of bottlenecks compressing 44 kHz audio in dimensionality by 8x, 32x, and

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music

128x respectively, with a codebook size of 2048 for each
level. The VQ-VAE has 2 million parameters and is trained
on 9-second audio clips on 256 V100 for 3 days. We used
exponential moving average to update the codebook following Razavi et al. (2019). For our prior and upsampler
models, we use a context of 8192 tokens of VQ-VAE codes,
which corresponds to approximately 24, 6, and 1.5 seconds
of raw audio at the top, middle, and bottom level, respectively. The upsamplers have one billion parameters and are
trained on 128 V100s for 2 weeks, and the top-level prior
has 5 billion parameters and is trained on 512 V100s for 4
weeks. We use Adam with learning rate 0.00015 and weight
decay of 0.002. For lyrics conditioning, we reuse the prior
and add a small encoder, after which we train the model on
512 V100s for 2 weeks. The detailed hyperparameters for
our models and training are provided in Appendix B.3.
5.3. Samples
We trained a sequence of models with increasing sample
quality. Our first model was trained on the MAESTRO
dataset using 22 kHz VQ-VAE codes and relatively small
prior models. We observed that this could generate high
fidelity classical music samples with piano and occasional
violin. We then collected a larger and more diverse dataset
of songs with genre and artist labels. The same model when
trained on this new dataset was able to produce diverse samples other than classical music, and demonstrated musicality
and coherence over more than a minute.
Despite the novelty of being able to generate generally high
fidelity and coherent songs, sample quality was still limited
by a number of factors. First, the use of 22 kHz sampling
rate along with small upsamplers introduced noise both in
the upsampling and decoding steps, which we hear as grainy
texture. We improved fidelity by using 44 kHz VQ-VAE
and 1B parameter upsamplers in all subsequent experiments
at the expense of longer rendering time.
Second, the 1B top-level prior was not big enough to produce singing and diverse musical timbres. We first explored
increasing the model size to 5 billion parameters. Larger
capacity allowed better modeling of the broader distribution of songs, resulting in samples with better musicality,
longer coherence and initial singing. While there is an overall qualitative improvement, the unconditional model still
struggled to sing recognizable words. Training a seq2seq
model with lyric conditioning and limiting the dataset only
to songs primarily in English made singing both intelligible
and controllable.
The final model, which we call Jukebox, uses all these
improvements. Because everyone experiences music differently, it is generally tricky and not very meaningful to
evaluate samples by the mean opinion score or FID-like
metrics. We manually evaluate coherence, musicality, diver-

sity, and novelty of generated samples. The links to curated
examples are embedded in text.
Coherence: We find the samples stay very coherent musically through the context length of the top-level prior (approximately 24 seconds), and they maintain similar harmonies and textures as we slide the window to generate
longer samples. However, because the top-level does not
have the context of the entire song, we do not hear long
term musical patterns, and we would never hear choruses or
melodies that repeat.
The generations progress through beginnings of songs (for
example applause or slow instrumental warm-ups), through
sections that sound chorus-like, through instrumental interludes, and then fading or otherwise wrapping up at the end.
The top-level prior always knows what fraction of the song
is complete time-wise, so it is able to imitate appropriate
beginnings, middles and ends.
Musicality: The samples frequently imitate familiar musical harmonies and the lyrics are usually set in ways that
are very natural. Frequently the highest or longest notes of
the melody match words that a human singer would choose
to emphasize, and the lyrics are almost always rendered
in ways that capture the prosody of the phrases. This is
noticeable in hip hop generations, where the model reliably
captures the rhythm of spoken text. We do find that the
generated melodies are usually less interesting than human
composed melodies. In particular, we do not hear the antecedent and consequent pattern familiar to many human
melodies, and we rarely hear choruses that are melodically
memorable.
Diversity: Likelihood training encourages covering of all
modes, so we expect the model to produce diverse samples.
– Re-renditions: We generate multiple samples conditioned
on artist and lyrics combinations that exist in our training
data. While occasionally drum and bass lines or melodic
intervals echo the original versions, we find that none of
the generated samples is noticeably similar to the original
songs.
We also generate multiple songs conditioned on the same
artist and lyrics as Sample 1 to obtain Samples 9–12. All five
sound interesting in their own ways with different moods
and melodies with Sample 10 playing a harmonic at 00:14
as part of a blues riff, showing that the model has learned a
wide range of singing and playing styles.
– Completions: We prime the model with 12 seconds of
existing songs and ask it to complete them in the same
styles. When the priming samples include singing, the continuations are more likely to imitate the original tunes and
rhythms. Songs primed with more generic or common intros
tend to be more diverse. Even generated samples that are

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music

close to the originals early on deviate completely into new
musical material after about 30 seconds.
Re-renditions and completions are interesting and diverse,
but overall, there is still room for improvement in music
quality compared to the original songs.
– Full tree: To understand diversity in a more systematic
way, we generate multiple continuations from the same segment. We start with a one-minute sample and independently
sample four times per one-minute extension. By the three
minute mark, there are 16 completions. We can think of this
branching tree as exploring different possibilities obtained
by ancestral sampling. In the generated songs in the link,
we hear diversity in singing and development even when the
same initial segment is used. We note that this particular
sample follows the lyrics more successfully than many. For
certain genres like hip hop and rap, where linearly moving
the window does not yield good lyrics alignment, the chance
of obtaining plausible singing is lower.
Novelty: With the ability to condition on various styles,
lyrics, and raw audio, we would like Jukebox to be a useful
tool for both professional musicians and music enthusiasts
alike. In this section, we are interested in exploring capabilities and applications of Jukebox.
– Novel styles: We generate songs in an unusual genre typically not associated with an artist. In general, we find that
it is fairly difficult to generalize to a novel style of singing
while using the same voice as the artist embedding overpowers other information. In Joe Bonamassa and Frank Sinatra
samples, we hear a modest variation in instrumentation,
energy, and ambience depending on the genre embedding.
However, our attempts to mix country singer Alan Jackson
with unusual genres like hip hop and punk did not seem to
move the samples away from a country style in meaningful
ways.
– Novel voices: We pick artists whose voices are reproduced
reasonably well by the model, and interpolate their style
embeddings to synthesize new voices. Some blending, for
instance, between Frank Sinatra and Alan Jackson in Sample
4, still sounds similar to Frank Sinatra. In most cases, the
model renders in a vaguely recognizable but distinct voice
that preserves different vocal attributes. Samples 1 and
2 conditioned on the Céline Dion embeddings divided by
two have slightly different timbre and tone but capture her
unique vibrato.
We also experiment with changing the style embedding in
the middle of a song to create a duet (Sample 7). This is
another way of guiding generation during sampling. Continuing in another voice works best when the segment ends
in an interlude; otherwise, the model blends voices in the
middle of a word or a sentence.

– Novel lyrics: We ask Jukebox to sing poems and novel
verses generated by GPT-2 (Radford et al.) to demonstrate
that it can indeed sing new lyrics. While the training data
consists of song lyrics with limited vocabulary and constrained structure, the model has learned to follow along
most prompts and sing even new words that are reasonably
pronounceable (including technical terms from the deep
learning literature). To get the best results, however, we find
that it is useful to spell out difficult words or acronyms as
they are spoken. The generations are noticeably higher quality if the text matches the distribution of lyrics for the given
artist, both in terms of length, and of rhyming or rhythmic
qualities. For example, hip hop lyrics tend to be longer than
most other genres, and the commonly emphasized syllables
easily form clear rhythms.
– Novel riffs: Another useful application of Jukebox is the
ability to record an incomplete idea and explore various
continuations without ever needing to tabulate in symbolic
representations, which would lose details of timbre and
mood. We curate recordings of novel riffs by our in-house
musicians and prime the model during sampling. Sample 6
starts with a musical style not widely used in Elton John’s
songs. The model still carries out the tune and develops
it further. Similarly, the beginning of Sample 1 is a progressive jazz piece with a 5/4 polymeter, which has never
been used in hip hop. Despite this novelty, the rhythm persists throughout the song and is incorporated naturally with
rapping.
5.4. VQ-VAE Ablations

Level

Hop length

Bottom
Middle
Top

8
32
128

Spectral convergence (dB)
Without restart With restart
−21.1
−12.4
−8.3

−23.0
−12.4
−8.3

Table 1. Reconstruction fidelity degrades with higher compression.
Restarting dead codes near random encoder outputs mitigates learning suboptimal codes.

Codebook size

Spectral convergence (dB)

256
2048
No quantization

−15.9
−23.0
−40.5

Table 2. Bottom-level VQ-VAE reconstruction results with different codebook sizes. Using larger codebooks helps reconstruction
because it allows more information to be encoded at the bottleneck
layers. Removing the bottleneck entirely yields almost perfect
reconstruction.

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music
16k

16k

8k

8k

4k

4k

2k

2k

1k
500

1k
500

16k
8k
4k
2k
1k
500
16k
8k
4k
2k
1k
500
16k
8k
4k
2k
1k
500
16k
8k
4k
2k
1k
500

Figure 4. Comparison of reconstructions from different VQ-VAEs, x-axis is time and y-axis is frequency. The columns from left to
right are bottom-, middle-, and top-level reconstructions at hop lengths 8, 32, and 128 respectively, visualized as Mel spectrograms.
The first row is the ground-truth, and the second row shows the spectrograms of audio outputs from our VQ-VAE. In the third row, we
remove the spectral loss, and see that the middle and top level lose high-frequency information. In the fourth row, we use a hierarchical
VQ-VAE (Razavi et al., 2019) instead of separate auto-encoders (Figure 1), and we see the middle and top levels are not used for encoding
pertinent information. Finally, the fifth row shows a baseline with the Opus codec that encodes audio at constant bitrates comparable to
our VQ-VAE. It also fails to capture higher frequencies and adds noticeable artifacts at the highest level of compression.

Ablation
None
Without spectral loss
With single autoencoder

Spectral convergence (dB)
−8.3
−6.3
2.9

Table 3. Top-level codes are generally difficult to train well without
spectral loss or with a single hierarchical autoencoder. Resulting
reconstructions may lose some to most of information.

We compare raw audio VQ-VAEs when trained with varying
compression ratios, objectives, and architectures. As we
use nonautoregressive decoders with continuous representation for output, we report spectral convergence (Sturmel

& Daudet, 2011), which measures the amount of spectral
error relative to signal, as test error and proxy for reconstruction fidelity. We evaluate on 5000 held-out 3-second audio
segments and report the average in decibels. All models in
this section are trained with a batch size of 32, 3-second
audio clips sampled at 44 kHz. As before, we use hop
lengths of 8, 32, and 128 for the bottom, middle and top
level respectively.
In Table 1, we see that increasing the hop size results in
higher reconstruction error. Figure 4 indeed shows that a
significant amount of information, especially higher frequencies, is missing at middle and top levels across all ablations
we ran. This is expected as audio is compressed more with

Codebook entropy (bits)

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music

6. Related Work
10
9
with restart
without restart

8
0

100k

200k
300k
400k
Number of training steps

500k

Figure 5. Entropy of codebook with 2048 codes, i.e 11 bits, over
training. Reviving dead codes near random encoder outputs ensures good codebook utilization from the start of training.

larger hop sizes. To mitigate codebook collapse, we restart
dead codes near random encoder embeddings. In Figure 5,
we see that this yields higher codebook usage even from
early on in training. Models trained without random restarts
can converge to the same test error and codebook usage but
require more training steps. With poor initialization, these
models sometimes end up with suboptimal codes hurting
reconstruction fidelity.
Codebook size also matters, as it sets a limit on channel capacity through the bottleneck layers. In Table 2, we find that
reconstruction error increases considerably when the codebook size is reduced from 2048 to 256. We also compare
with a model that uses continuous representations without
vector quantization. We can think of this model as using a
vastly large codebook with all encoder embeddings. This
achieves almost perfect reconstruction with negligible spectral error.
When the model is trained with L2 loss only, reconstructions tend to sound muddy from missing high frequencies,
and this problem is exacerbated as hop size is increased. In
Figure 4, we see that top-level codes trained without spectral loss do not capture much information beyond 2 kHz,
and obtain worse reconstructions (Table 3). However, we
observe that while spectral loss helps encode more information, it also adds distortion artifacts which we hear as
scratchy noise.
Lastly, we train a raw audio hierarchical VQ-VAE (Razavi
et al., 2019) and find that it is generally difficult to push
information to higher levels. This model is trained twice as
long as the previous models, but middle and top-level reconstructions as shown in Figure 4 are not capturing much. It is
possible that higher level codes may have collapsed before
bottom level starts to reconstruct the audio well. Making
the bottom layers explicitly model residuals pushed more
information to the top. But, we found separate autoencoders
to be cleaner and more effective.

Generative modeling in deep learning: Generative models aim to learn the distribution of data by either explicitly
by modeling the distribution or implicitly by constructing
means to sample from it (Goodfellow, 2016). Modeling
the interdependency within high-dimensional data was traditionally considered extremely difficult, but starting with
Deep Boltzmann Machines (Salakhutdinov & Hinton, 2009),
various kinds of deep generative models have been introduced. Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) (Goodfellow et al., 2014) use generator and discriminator networks that contest each other to make the generated samples
as indistinguishable as possible from the data, and they
are renowned for their ability to generate high-quality pictures (Zhang et al., 2019b; Brock et al., 2019). Autoregressive generative models such as NADE (Uria et al., 2016),
PixelCNN (Van den Oord et al., 2016), and Transformers
(Vaswani et al., 2017) use the chain rule of probability to
factorize the joint distribution of data into a product of
simpler distributions, and flow-based models (Dinh et al.,
2015; 2017; Rezende & Mohamed, 2015; Kingma & Dhariwal, 2018) learn a series of invertible transformations that
maps the data distribution with a simpler one such as a
Gaussian distribution. Autoregressive flows (Papamakarios
et al., 2017; Kingma et al., 2016) combine the two ideas to
achieve faster density estimation or data generation. Variational autoencoders (VAEs) (Rezende et al., 2014; Kingma
& Welling, 2014) impose a Gaussian prior on the latent
code in an encoder-decoder setup from which data can be
sampled.
Generative models for music: Generative modeling of
symbolic music dates back to more than half a century, when
Hiller Jr & Isaacson (1957) introduced the first computergenerated music based on Markov chains. There exists
a variety of earlier approaches using rule-based systems
(Moorer, 1972), chaos and self-similarity (Pressing, 1988),
cellular automata (Beyls, 1989), concatenative synthesis
(Jehan, 2005), and constraint programming (Anders & Miranda, 2011). More recent data-driven approaches include
DeepBach (Hadjeres et al., 2017) and Coconet (Huang et al.,
2017) which use Gibbs sampling to produce notes in the
style of Bach chorals, MidiNet (Yang et al., 2017) and
MuseGAN (Dong et al., 2018) which use generative adversarial networks, MusicVAE (Roberts et al., 2018) and
HRNN (Wu et al., 2019) which use hierarchical recurrent
networks, and Music Transformer (Huang et al., 2019a)
and MuseNet (Payne, 2019) which use Transformers to autoregressively predict MIDI note events. There also have
been a number of approaches for synthesizing music conditioned on symbolic music information, such as NSynth
(Engel et al., 2017) which uses WaveNet-style autoencoder, Mel2Mel (Kim et al., 2019) and Wave2Midi2Wave
(Hawthorne et al., 2019) which synthesize music using

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music

WaveNet conditioned on a piano roll representation, and
GanSynth (Engel et al., 2019) which uses generative adversarial networks to produce magnitude spectrograms together
with instananeous frequencies for easier spectrogram inversion. Generative models for music can also be used for
music style transfer, as seen in Midi-VAE (Brunner et al.,
2018) which uses a variational autoencoder to transfer styles
between classical and jazz music, LakhNES (Donahue et al.,
2019) which uses a Transformer architecture to generate
chiptune music, and Universal Music Translator Network
(Mor et al., 2019) which uses a denoising autoencoder that
can disentangle musical style and content.
Sample-level generation of audio: In recent years, a variety of generative models for raw audio have been introduced.
WaveNet (Oord et al., 2016) performs autoregressive sampleby-sample probabilistic modeling of raw waveform using a
series of dilated convolutions to exponentially increase the
context length. It can produce realistic audio either unconditionally or by conditioning on acoustic features or spectrograms. The autoregressive nature of WaveNet makes the
sampling notoriously slow, and it uses a categorical distribution for audio samples which introduces quantization noise.
Parallel WaveNet (Oord et al., 2018) improves upon this
by instead using a mixture of logistics distribution, a continuous probability distribution, and performing probability density distillation which learns a parallel feed-forward
network from a pre-trained autoregressive model, allowing faster sampling of high fidelity audio. ClariNet (Ping
et al., 2019) achieves similar audio quality using a simple
Gaussian distribution instead and thus having a closed-form
loss function, eliminating the need for Monte-Carlo sampling. SampleRNN (Mehri et al., 2017) uses a multi-scale,
hierarchical recurrent neural network with convolutional
upsampling to model long-range complex structures. WaveRNN (Kalchbrenner et al., 2018) uses recurrent neural
networks that operate separately on the most significant and
the least significant bytes, which can be efficiently deployed
in mobile devices while having comparable audio quality to
WaveNet. WaveGlow (Prenger et al., 2019) is a flow-based
model for parallel sample-level audio synthesis, which can
be trained with a straightforward maximum-likelihood estimation and thus is advantageous to the two-stage training
process needed for distillation. Parallel WaveGAN (Yamamoto et al., 2020) and MelGAN (Kumar et al., 2019)
are GAN-based approaches directly modeling audio waveforms, achieving similar quality as WaveNet and WaveGlow
models with significantly fewer parameters. While the approaches above serve as sophisticated generative models for
raw audio to be conditioned on a compact and controllable
representation of audio such as Mel spectrograms, MelNet (Vasquez & Lewis, 2019) takes a different approach of
hierarchically generating accurate high-resolution Mel spec-

trograms, after which a simple gradient-based optimization
can produce high-fidelity audio.
VQ-VAE: Oord et al. (2017) introduced VQ-VAE, an approach of downsampling extremely long context inputs to a
shorter-length discrete latent encoding using a vector quantization, and they showed that it can generate both highquality images and audio, as well as learn unsupervized
representations of phonemes. Razavi et al. (2019) extended
the above model by introducing a hierarchy of discrete representations for images and showed that the resulting model
can learn to separate high-level semantics into the highest
level of discrete codes which have the largest receptive field,
while capturing local features like textures in the lower levels with smaller receptive fields. They used the hierarchical
model to generate high-diversity and high-fidelity images
for the conditional ImageNet and FFHQ datasets. Dieleman
et al. (2018) tried variants of this approach where instead
of a single encoder there are successive encoders that each
further compress the lossy discrete encodings from the previous levels. A downside of this approach is that information
is lost at each step and requires separate training for each
VQ-VAE level, and it leads to a hierarchy collapse problem.
De Fauw et al. (2019) used AR decoders which are known to
cause the problem of ignoring the latent variables, and they
suggested ways to mitigate it. The feed-forward decoders
from (Razavi et al., 2019) do not suffer from this issue, and
thus we use their approach.
Speech synthesis: Producing natural human voice entails
an understanding of linguistic features, mapping of sounds,
and steerability of expression. Many text-to-speech (TTS)
systems rely on highly engineered features (Klatt, 1980),
carefully curated sound segments (Hunt & Black, 1996),
statistical parametric modeling (Zen et al., 2009), and often complex pipelines as described in (Arık et al., 2017).
These approaches are fairly involved and produce unnatural
or inarticulate voices. More recent works like Deep Voice
3 (Ping et al., 2018), Tacotron 2 (Shen et al., 2018), and
Char2Wav (Sotelo et al., 2017) learn speech synthesis endto-end using sequence-to-sequence architecture (Sutskever
et al., 2014). The design space is vast, but in general, typical
approaches comprise of a bidirectional encoder, a decoder,
and a vocoder to build text representations, audio features,
and the final raw waveforms. To generate multiple voices,
text-to-speech models can also condition on the speaker
identity (Oord et al., 2016; Gibiansky et al., 2017; Jia et al.,
2018) as well as text prompt. By learning and manipulating auxiliary embeddings, models can mimic a new voice
(Arık et al., 2018a; Taigman et al., 2018) at test time. These
methods, however, require labeled data. Ideas like clustering (Dehak et al., 2011), priming (Wang et al., 2018),
and variational autoencoders (Hsu et al., 2019; Akuzawa
et al., 2018) have been used to learn broader styles of speech
and control expressivity in an unsupervised way. There are

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music

also works on synthesizing singing by additionally controlling pitch and timbre. Similar to TTS literature, early
works use concatenative methods (Bonada & Serra, 2007)
that join short segments of curated singing, and statistical
parametric methods (Saino et al., 2006; Oura et al., 2010)
which allow modeling of timbre from training data. Both
approaches impose fairly strong assumptions resulting in
noticeable artifacts. (Blaauw & Bonada, 2017) train a neural
TTS model with a parametric vocoder to separate pitch and
timbre which can be controlled at generation time.

7. Future work
While our approach represents a step forward in the ability
to generate coherent long raw audio music samples, we recognize several directions for future work. Great music generation should be high quality over all time scales: it should
have a developing musical and emotional structure across
the entire piece, local notes and harmonies that always make
sense, nuanced and appropriate small timbral and textural
details, and audio recording quality that balances and blends
the multiple voices well, and without unwanted noise. We
view our current model as stronger on the mid-range time
scales: often the model generates samples that locally sound
very good, with interesting and diverse harmonies, rhythms,
instruments, and voices. We have frequently been very
impressed how the melody and rhythm generated suits a
particular lyric extremely well. However, while the samples
stay consistent over longer time scales, we notice they don’t
have traditional larger music structures (such as choruses
that repeat, or melodies that have a question and answer
form). Additionally, on the smallest scale, we sometimes
hear audio noise or scratchiness.
Beyond the quality of the samples, we also would look
to diversify the languages and styles the model is able to
generate. Our current model has been trained only on songs
whose primary language as detected by (Sites, 2013) is
English. In the future, we would look to include other
languages and artists. We believe this will be of interest
both for generating strictly in those styles, and because
historically we have seen much creativity and development
coming from unusual blends of existing musical styles.
Finally, we consider it very important that computer music
generation also serves as a tool for human musicians, and
increasingly those interested in music but without formal
training. While we are able to steer our current model somewhat through lyric and midi conditioning, we can imagine
many other possible ways for humans to influence the generations, including indicating the mood or dynamic at various
sections, or controlling when drums, singers, or other instruments should play.

The current model takes around an hour to generate 1 minute
of top level tokens. The upsampling process is very slow,
as it proceeds sequentially through the sample. Currently it
takes around 8 hours to upsample one minute of top level
tokens. We can create a human-in-the-loop co-composition
process at the top level only, using the VQ-VAE decoders
to get a fast upsampling of the top level tokens to hear a
very rough sense of what the model generates. The top-level
model generates multiple samples, the person picks a favorite (listening to the rough VQ-VAE decoding), and then
the model continues generating multiple samples continuing
the favorite. This process would be significantly improved
with faster generation and Transformer upsampling steps.
Our models have fast parallel evaluation of likelihood but
slow autoregressive sampling. We can instead use a model
with fast parallel sampling but slow autoregressive likelihood evaluation (Kingma et al., 2016), and distill the information from our current model into it (Oord et al., 2018).
The distillation works by generating samples from the parallel sampler and evaluating it likelihood and entropy using
the parallel likelihood evaluator, and then optimising the
sampler by minimising the KL divergence of it from our
current model.

8. Conclusion
We have introduced Jukebox, a model that generates raw
audio music imitating many different styles and artists. We
can condition this music on specific artists and genres, and
can optionally specify the lyrics for the sample. We laid
out the details necessary to train a Hierarchical VQ-VAE to
compress the music effectively into tokens. While previous
work has generated raw audio music in the 20–30 second
range, our model is capable of generating pieces that are
multiple minutes long, and with recognizable singing in
natural-sounding voices.

9. Acknowledgement
We would like to thank John Schulman and Will Guss for
producing and performing novel riffs for our sampling experiments, and Rewon Child, Aditya Ramesh, Ryan Lowe
and Jack Clark for providing feedback for initial drafts of
this paper.

References
Akuzawa, K., Iwasawa, Y., and Matsuo, Y. Expressive
speech synthesis via modeling expressions with variational autoencoder. In INTERSPEECH, 2018.
Anders, T. and Miranda, E. R. Constraint programming
systems for modeling music theories and composition.
ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR), 43(4):1–38, 2011.

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music

Arık, S. Ö., Chrzanowski, M., Coates, A., Diamos, G., Gibiansky, A., Kang, Y., Li, X., Miller, J., Ng, A., Raiman,
J., Sengupta, S., and Shoeybi, M. Deep Voice: Real-time
neural text-to-speech. In International Conference on
Machine Learning, pp. 195–204, 2017.
Arık, S. Ö., Chen, J., Peng, K., Ping, W., and Zhou, Y.
Neural voice cloning with a few samples. In Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, pp. 10019–
10029. 2018a.
Arık, S. Ö., Jun, H., and Diamos, G. Fast spectrogram
inversion using multi-head convolutional neural networks.
IEEE Signal Processing Letters, 26(1):94–98, 2018b.
Ba, J. L., Kiros, J. R., and Hinton, G. E. Layer normalization.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1607.06450, 2016.
Berner, C., Brockman, G., Chan, B., Cheung, V., D˛ebiak, P.,
Dennison, C., Farhi, D., Fischer, Q., Hashme, S., Hesse,
C., et al. Dota 2 with large scale deep reinforcement
learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1912.06680, 2019.
Beyls, P. The musical universe of cellular automata. In
International Computer Music Conference, pp. 34–41,
1989.
Blaauw, M. and Bonada, J. A neural parametric singing
synthesizer. In INTERSPEECH, 2017.
Bonada, J. and Serra, X. Synthesis of the singing voice by
performance sampling and spectral models. IEEE signal
processing magazine, 24(2):67–79, 2007.
Brock, A., Donahue, J., and Simonyan, K. Large scale
GAN training for high fidelity natural image synthesis. In
International Conference on Learning Representations,
2019.
Brunner, G., Konrad, A., Wang, Y., and Wattenhofer, R.
MIDI-VAE: modeling dynamics and instrumentation of
music with applications to style transfer. In International
Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference, pp.
747–754, 2018.
Child, R., Gray, S., Radford, A., and Sutskever, I. Generating long sequences with sparse transformers. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1904.10509, 2019.

Dieleman, S., van den Oord, A., and Simonyan, K. The challenge of realistic music generation: modelling raw audio
at scale. In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, pp. 7989–7999, 2018.
Dinh, L., Krueger, D., and Bengio, Y. NICE: Non-linear independent components estimation. In International Conference in Learning Representations, Workshop, 2015.
Dinh, L., Sohl-Dickstein, J., and Bengio, S. Density estimation using Real NVP. In International Conference in
Learning Representations, 2017.
Donahue, C., Mao, H. H., Li, Y. E., Cottrell, G. W., and
McAuley, J. J. LakhNES: Improving multi-instrumental
music generation with cross-domain pre-training. In International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference, pp. 685–692, 2019.
Dong, H.-W., Hsiao, W.-Y., Yang, L.-C., and Yang, Y.-H.
MuseGAN: Multi-track sequential generative adversarial
networks for symbolic music generation and accompaniment. In Thirty-Second AAAI Conference on Artificial
Intelligence, 2018.
Engel, J., Resnick, C., Roberts, A., Dieleman, S., Norouzi,
M., Eck, D., and Simonyan, K. Neural audio synthesis
of musical notes with wavenet autoencoders. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 1068–1077,
2017.
Engel, J., Agrawal, K. K., Chen, S., Gulrajani, I., Donahue,
C., and Roberts, A. GANSynth: Adversarial neural audio synthesis. In International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2019.
Gibiansky, A., Arık, S. Ö., Diamos, G., Miller, J., Peng, K.,
Ping, W., Raiman, J., and Zhou, Y. Deep Voice 2: Multispeaker neural text-to-speech. In Advances in neural
information processing systems, pp. 2962–2970, 2017.
Goodfellow, I. NIPS 2016 tutorial: Generative adversarial
networks. In Neural Information Processing Systems,
Tutorial, 2016.
Goodfellow, I., Pouget-Abadie, J., Mirza, M., Xu, B.,
Warde-Farley, D., Ozair, S., Courville, A., and Bengio,
Y. Generative adversarial nets. In Advances in neural
information processing systems, pp. 2672–2680, 2014.

De Fauw, J., Dieleman, S., and Simonyan, K. Hierarchical autoregressive image models with auxiliary decoders.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1903.04933, 2019.

Gupta, C., Yılmaz, E., and Li, H. Automatic lyrics transcription in polyphonic music: Does background music
help? In International Conference on Acoustics, Speech,
and Signal Processing, 2020.

Dehak, N., Kenny, P. J., Dehak, R., Dumouchel, P., and
Ouellet, P. Front-end factor analysis for speaker verification. IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language
Processing, 19(4):788–798, 2011.

Hadjeres, G., Pachet, F., and Nielsen, F. Deepbach: a steerable model for bach chorales generation. In International
Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 1362–1371. JMLR.
org, 2017.

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music

Hawthorne, C., Stasyuk, A., Roberts, A., Simon, I., Huang,
C.-Z. A., Dieleman, S., Elsen, E., Engel, J., and Eck, D.
Enabling factorized piano music modeling and generation
with the MAESTRO dataset. In International Conference
on Learning Representations, 2019.

Kalchbrenner, N., Elsen, E., Simonyan, K., Noury, S.,
Casagrande, N., Lockhart, E., Stimberg, F., Oord, A.,
Dieleman, S., and Kavukcuoglu, K. Efficient neural audio synthesis. In International Conference on Machine
Learning, pp. 2410–2419, 2018.

Hennequin, R., Khlif, A., Voituret, F., and Moussallam, M.
Spleeter: A fast and state-of-the art music source separation tool with pre-trained models. Late-Breaking/Demo
ISMIR 2019, November 2019. Deezer Research.

Kim, J. W., Bittner, R., Kumar, A., and Bello, J. P. Neural
music synthesis for flexible timbre control. In IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing, pp. 176–180, 2019.

Hiller Jr, L. A. and Isaacson, L. M. Musical composition
with a high speed digital computer. In Audio Engineering
Society Convention 9. Audio Engineering Society, 1957.
Ho, J., Kalchbrenner, N., Weissenborn, D., and Salimans, T.
Axial attention in multidimensional transformers. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1912.12180, 2019.
Hsu, W.-N., Zhang, Y., Weiss, R. J., Zen, H., Wu, Y., Wang,
Y., Cao, Y., Jia, Y., Chen, Z., Shen, J., Nguyen, P., and
Pang, R. Hierarchical generative modeling for controllable speech synthesis. In International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2019.
Huang, C. A., Cooijmans, T., Roberts, A., Courville, A. C.,
and Eck, D. Counterpoint by convolution. In International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference, pp. 211–218, 2017.
Huang, C.-Z. A., Vaswani, A., Uszkoreit, J., Shazeer, N.,
Simon, I., Hawthorne, C., Dai, A. M., Hoffman, M. D.,
Dinculescu, M., and Eck, D. Music Transformer: Generating music with long-term structure. In International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2019a.
Huang, Y., Cheng, Y., Bapna, A., Firat, O., Chen, D., Chen,
M., Lee, H., Ngiam, J., Le, Q. V., Wu, Y., et al. Gpipe:
Efficient training of giant neural networks using pipeline
parallelism. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pp. 103–112, 2019b.
Hunt, A. J. and Black, A. W. Unit selection in a concatenative speech synthesis system using a large speech
database. In IEEE International Conference on Acoustics,
Speech, and Signal Processing Conference, pp. 373–376,
1996.
Jehan, T. Creating music by listening. PhD thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, School of Architecture
and Planning, Program in Media Arts and Sciences, 2005.
Jia, Y., Zhang, Y., Weiss, R., Wang, Q., Shen, J., Ren, F.,
Chen, z., Nguyen, P., Pang, R., Lopez Moreno, I., and
Wu, Y. Transfer learning from speaker verification to
multispeaker text-to-speech synthesis. In Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, pp. 4480–4490.
2018.

Kingma, D. P. and Dhariwal, P. Glow: Generative flow
with invertible 1x1 convolutions. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, pp. 10215–10224, 2018.
Kingma, D. P. and Welling, M. Auto-encoding variational
bayes. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2014.
Kingma, D. P., Salimans, T., Jozefowicz, R., Chen, X.,
Sutskever, I., and Welling, M. Improved variational inference with inverse autoregressive flow. In Advances in
neural information processing systems, pp. 4743–4751,
2016.
Klatt, D. H. Software for a cascade/parallel formant synthesizer. Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 67
(3):971–995, 1980.
Kumar, K., Kumar, R., de Boissiere, T., Gestin, L., Teoh,
W. Z., Sotelo, J., de Brébisson, A., Bengio, Y., and
Courville, A. C. MelGAN: Generative adversarial networks for conditional waveform synthesis. In Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, pp. 14881–
14892, 2019.
LyricWiki. URL https://lyrics.fandom.com/
wiki/LyricWiki.
Mehri, S., Kumar, K., Gulrajani, I., Kumar, R., Jain, S.,
Sotelo, J., Courville, A., and Bengio, Y. SampleRNN: An
unconditional end-to-end neural audio generation model.
In International Conference on Learning Representations,
2017.
Moorer, J. A. Music and computer composition. Communications of the ACM, 15(2):104–113, 1972.
Mor, N., Wolf, L., Polyak, A., and Taigman, Y. Autoencoderbased music translation. In International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2019.
Oord, A. v. d., Dieleman, S., Zen, H., Simonyan, K.,
Vinyals, O., Graves, A., Kalchbrenner, N., Senior, A.,
and Kavukcuoglu, K. WaveNet: A generative model for
raw audio. arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.03499, 2016.

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music

Oord, A. v. d., Vinyals, O., and Kavukcuoglu, K. Neural
discrete representation learning. In Neural Information
Processing Systems, 2017.
Oord, A. v. d., Li, Y., Babuschkin, I., Simonyan, K., Vinyals,
O., Kavukcuoglu, K., van den Driessche, G., Lockhart, E.,
Cobo, L., Stimberg, F., Casagrande, N., Grewe, D., Noury,
S., Dieleman, S., Elsen, E., Kalchbrenner, N., Zen, H.,
Graves, A., King, H., Walters, T., Belov, D., and Hassabis,
D. Parallel WaveNet: Fast high-fidelity speech synthesis.
In International Conference on Machine Learning, pp.
3918–3926, 2018.
Oura, K., Mase, A., Yamada, T., Muto, S., Nankaku, Y.,
and Tokuda, K. Recent development of the HMM-based
singing voice synthesis system – Sinsy. 2010.
Papamakarios, G., Pavlakou, T., and Murray, I. Masked
autoregressive flow for density estimation. In Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, pp. 2338–2347,
2017.
Payne, C. Musenet. OpenAI blog, 2019. URL https:
//openai.com/blog/musenet.
Ping, W., Peng, K., Gibiansky, A., Arik, S. O., Kannan,
A., Narang, S., Raiman, J., and Miller, J. Deep Voice
3: 2000-speaker neural text-to-speech. In International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2018.
Ping, W., Peng, K., and Chen, J. Clarinet: Parallel wave
generation in end-to-end text-to-speech. In International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2019.
Prenger, R., Valle, R., and Catanzaro, B. WaveGlow: A
flow-based generative network for speech synthesis. In
IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
Signal Processing, pp. 3617–3621, 2019.
Pressing, J. Nonlinear maps as generators of musical design.
Computer Music Journal, 12(2):35–46, 1988.

Roberts, A., Engel, J., Raffel, C., Hawthorne, C., and Eck,
D. A hierarchical latent vector model for learning longterm structure in music. In International Conference on
Machine Learning, pp. 4364–4373, 2018.
Saino, K., Zen, H., Nankaku, Y., Lee, A., and Tokuda,
K. An HMM-based singing voice synthesis system. In
INTERSPEECH, 2006.
Salakhutdinov, R. and Hinton, G. Deep boltzmann machines.
In Artificial intelligence and statistics, pp. 448–455, 2009.
Shen, J., Pang, R., Weiss, R. J., Schuster, M., Jaitly, N.,
Yang, Z., Chen, Z., Zhang, Y., Wang, Y., Skerrv-Ryan,
R., Saurous, R. A., Agiomvrgiannakis, Y., and Wu, Y.
Natural TTS synthesis by conditioning wavenet on mel
spectrogram predictions. In IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing, pp.
4779–4783, 2018.
Sites, D. Compact language detector 2. 2013. URL https:
//github.com/CLD2Owners/cld2.
Sotelo, J., Mehri, S., Kumar, K., Santos, J. F., Kastner, K.,
Courville, A. C., and Bengio, Y. Char2Wav: End-toend speech synthesis. In International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2017.
Sturmel, N. and Daudet, L. Signal reconstruction from stft
magnitude: A state of the art. International Conference
on Digital Audio Effects, DAFx, 2011.
Sutskever, I., Vinyals, O., and Le, Q. V. Sequence to sequence learning with neural networks. In Advances in
neural information processing systems, pp. 3104–3112,
2014.
Taigman, Y., Wolf, L., Polyak, A., and Nachmani, E.
VoiceLoop: Voice fitting and synthesis via a phonological
loop. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2018.

Radford, A., Wu, J., Child, R., Luan, D., Amodei, D., and
Sutskever, I. Language models are unsupervised multitask
learners.

Uria, B., Côté, M.-A., Gregor, K., Murray, I., and
Larochelle, H. Neural autoregressive distribution estimation. The Journal of Machine Learning Research, 17
(1):7184–7220, 2016.

Razavi, A., van den Oord, A., and Vinyals, O. Generating
diverse high-fidelity images with vq-vae-2. In Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, pp. 14837–
14847, 2019.

Van den Oord, A., Kalchbrenner, N., Espeholt, L., Vinyals,
O., Graves, A., et al. Conditional image generation with
pixelcnn decoders. In Advances in neural information
processing systems, pp. 4790–4798, 2016.

Rezende, D. and Mohamed, S. Variational inference with
normalizing flows. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 1530–1538, 2015.

Vasquez, S. and Lewis, M. MelNet: A generative model
for audio in the frequency domain. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1906.01083, 2019.

Rezende, D. J., Mohamed, S., and Wierstra, D. Stochastic
backpropagation and approximate inference in deep generative models. In International Conference on Machine
Learning, pp. 1278–1286, 2014.

Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones,
L., Gomez, A. N., Kaiser, Ł., and Polosukhin, I. Attention is all you need. In Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, pp. 5998–6008, 2017.

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music

Wang, Y., Stanton, D., Zhang, Y., Skerry-Ryan, R., Battenberg, E., Shor, J., Xiao, Y., Ren, F., Jia, Y., and Saurous,
R. A. Style Tokens: Unsupervised style modeling, control
and transfer in end-to-end speech synthesis. In International Conference on Machine Learning, 2018.
Wu, J., Hu, C., Wang, Y., Hu, X., and Zhu, J. A hierarchical
recurrent neural network for symbolic melody generation.
IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, 2019.
Xie, S., Girshick, R., Dollár, P., Tu, Z., and He, K. Aggregated residual transformations for deep neural networks.
In IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pp. 1492–1500, 2017.
Yamamoto, R., Song, E., and Kim, J.-M. Parallel WaveGAN: A fast waveform generation model based on generative adversarial networks with multi-resolution spectrogram. In International Conference on Acoustics, Speech,
and Signal Processing, 2020.
Yang, L., Chou, S., and Yang, Y. Midinet: A convolutional
generative adversarial network for symbolic-domain music generation. In International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference, pp. 324–331, 2017.
Zen, H., Tokuda, K., and Black, A. W. Review: Statistical
parametric speech synthesis. Speech Communication, 51
(11):1039–1064, 2009.
Zhang, H., Dauphin, Y. N., and Ma, T. Fixup initialization:
Residual learning without normalization. In International
Conference on Machine Learning, 2019a.
Zhang, H., Goodfellow, I., Metaxas, D., and Odena, A.
Self-attention generative adversarial networks. In International Conference on Machine Learning, 2019b.

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music

A. Scalable Transformer
We make the Sparse Transformer (Child et al., 2019) more
scalable and easier to implement by a few small changes.
We implement a simpler attention pattern that has the same
performance without needing custom kernels to implement.
We simplify the initialization by using the same initalization
scale in the whole model without rescaling the weights
based on fan-in and depth, and we optimize the memory
footprint with fully half-precision training, i.e. storing the
model weights, gradients and the optimizer states in half
precision and performing computations in half precision as
well. To cope with the narrower dynamic range of the fp16
format, we use dynamic scaling of the gradient and Adam
optimizer states.
Axis-aligned attention patterns: The Sparse Transformer
(Child et al., 2019) sparsifies the attention pattern by
reshaping the input sequence into a 2-D sequence of
shape (blocks, block length) to use factorized attention.
They observe that the strided attention pattern works
best for images and audio because it does not have the
state bottleneck of the fixed attention. However, their
implementation require specialized CUDA kernels. We
can obtain a similar pattern by doing masked row, masked
column, and unmasked previous-row attention. While
the masked row captures the local context, the masked
column and unmasked previous-row attention captures
the context of all previous rows. We observe the same
computational speed as well as training loss with this
pattern. Each of these can be implemented directly as a
dense attention by transposing or slicing the input sequence
along appropriate axes, and thus do not require special
CUDA kernels to implement. This can be easily extended
to video too. Complementary to our work, a similar
pattern was introduced in (Ho et al., 2019) where they also
used axis-aligned attention but instead used a two-stream
architecture.
Half-precision parameters and optimizer state with dynamic scaling: To allow training large models, (Child et al.,
2019) uses recompute with gradient checkpointing, performs computations using half precision activations and
gradients, and uses dynamic loss scaling. While this speeds
up training on Volta cores, one still has a high memory usage from storing the parameters and Adam state in full float
precision. To scale our models further, we store our matmul
parameters and their Adam state in half precision, thus halving our memory usage. We use a single parameter s to set the
scale of all weights and initialize all matmul and input/output embeddings3 to N (0, s), and position embeddings to
N (0, 2s). The initialization ensures all parameters are in a
similar dynamic range, and allows us to train in half preci3

We share the input and output embedding

Masked
Row Attention

Masked
Column Attention

Unmasked
Previous-Row Attention

(a) Three axis-aligned attention patterns are sparse attention patterns that allow autoregressive generative modeling while only
using simple Python-level array manipulation. Masked row and
column attention patterns use autoregressive masks, whereas unmasked previous-row attention is fully visible.

(b) Combining two of the attention patterns, each position can
attend to any of the previous positions, while not causing a state
bottleneck as in fixed sparse attention (Child et al., 2019).
Figure 6. Axis-aligned attention patterns

sion completely without loss in training performance. For
the Adam state tensors (m_t, v_t) we do dynamic scaling. For each iteration and for every parameter, we rescale
its state tensors before casting so that their maximum corresponds to the maximum value of the float16 range, thus maximizing the use of the float16 range. Thus, we store the state
m_t as the tuple (scale, (m_t/scale).half()),
where scale = m_t.max()/float16.max(), and
similarly for v_t. The above lets us fit models of size 1B
parameters into memory for our large context of 8192 tokens. To train even larger models, we use GPipe (Huang
et al., 2019b).

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music

B. Experimental details
B.1. Music VQ-VAE
We have three separate raw audio VQ-VAEs to produce discrete codes at varying hop sizes for the bottom, middle, and
top priors. All autoencoders comprise non-causal, dilated
1-D convolutions, and are trained independently using nonautoregressive reconstruction losses. Basic building blocks
in these networks share the same architecture, as shown in
Figure 7. Each encoder block consists of a downsampling
convolution, a residual network, and a 1D convolution with
a kernel size of 3. Dilation is grown by a factor of 3 in
these residual networks to increase the receptive field. The
decoder block mirrors this exactly with a 1D convolution
with the kernel size of 3, a residual network with dilation
contracting across depth, and an upsampling transposed convolution. Here, all resampling convolutions use a kernel size
of 4 and stride 2 so that each building block changes the
hop length by a factor of 2. To get higher compression in
time, we simply stack more of these blocks. For example,
using seven blocks yields a hop length of 128 for the top
level autoencoder.
Each residual network has four residual blocks in the middle and top VQ-VAEs resulting in a receptive field of 120
ms and 480 ms for the respective discrete tokens. Because
increasing the residual depth helped improve reconstruction
quality slightly, we doubled the number of residual blocks
for the bottom level. This dramatically increases the receptive field to about 2 seconds per code but the actual receptive
field is mostly local.
We also experimented with having a single decoder and
modeling the residuals to separate out learned representations as in (Razavi et al., 2019), hoping upsampling priors
would simply fill in local musical structure. However, pushing information to the top level was quite challenging as the
bottommost level reconstructs almost perfectly early on in
training. When we add auxiliary objectives to encourage
the top to be used more, the top-level codes add serious
distortions to the final output. A similar challenge is shown
in (Dieleman et al., 2018).
B.2. Music Priors and Upsamplers
Architectural details of our music prior and upsampler models are depicted in Figure 8. They perform autoregressive
modeling of tokens at each level, conditioned on information such as artist and genre, as well as the tokens from the
upper level in the case of the upsamplers (Figure 8a). Each
artist and genre are learned as embedding vectors, whose
sum is provided as the very first token in each sequence.
In addition, positional embedding is learned as a function
of each position’s absolute and relative timing in the duration of the song. In upsampler models, upper-level tokens

×L
×D

Dilated
Conv1D

xt

Conv1D

Conv1D

+

ht

(a) The encoder compresses the raw audio input into a sequence
of embeddings. The length of this latent representation relative
to the raw audio duration determines the amount of compression,
and is an important factor for the trade-off between fidelity and
coherence.
Codebook

ht

Nearest-Neighbor
Search

Codebook
Lookup

zt

ezt

Gradient Passthrough

(b) The bottleneck takes the sequence of embeddings from the
encoder and maps it into a sequence of code vectors from the
codebook. This sequence of code indices is used as a discrete
representation to be modeled by the priors. Larger codebooks
improve fidelity but may be more difficult to compress.
×L
Dilated
Conv1D

ezt

×D
Conv1D
+

Transposed
Conv1D

Conv1D

x̂t

(c) The decoder reconstructs the raw audio from latent representations. It is a mirror of the encoder where dilations constracts
by a factor of 3 down to 1 at the last block. The final Conv1D
projects to the desired number of audio channels and also acts as a
smoothing operation after a sequence of transposed convolutions.
Figure 7. Components of the VQ-VAE model

are upsampled by the conditioner network, using WaveNetstyle dilated convolutions followed by a transposed 1-D
convolutional layer (Figure 8b).
When the model is trained on lyrics, the top-level prior takes
lyrics data corresponding to each audio segment and uses
them to train an encoder-decoder Transformer as shown in
Figure 8c. All transformer stacks use sparse self-attention
layers with the three factorized attention types (row, column,
and previous-row) repeating, and encoder-decoder attention
layers, when present, are interleaved with the other attention
types. Each layer consists of residual connections of an
attention and an MLP feedforward network, each prepended
by layer normalization (see Figure 8d).

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music

Not Used in the Top Level

Upper-Level Tokens

Conditioner

Timing Data

Time Embedding
z1:T–1

Artist & Genre

Token Embedding
×D
Dilated Conv1D
Conv1D

Lyrics

+

Scalable Transformer

Transposed Conv1D
z1:T

(a) The structure of our prior models, performing next-token prediction at each
level. The Transformer takes the embeddings of the tokens z1:T −1 prepended by
the sum of the artist and genre embeddings, in addition to the time embedding
that encodes relative and absolute timing of the segments in the duration of the
song. The upsampler priors additionally take the tokens from the upper level,
which are fed to the conditioner network and added to the input sequence. The
top-level prior takes lyrics as conditioning information as well (see Figure 8c).

Only in the Top Level

(b) The conditioner network takes the tokens from
the upper level, and their embedding vectors go
through non-causal WaveNet-like layers with increasingly dilated convolutions. The transposed 1-D
convolution upsamples the sequence to the higher
temporal resolution of the current level.

VQ Codes

Lyrics

Lyrics Token Embedding

VQ Code Embedding

Row Attention Layer

Row Attention Layer

Column Attention Layer

Column Attention Layer

Previous-Row Attention Layer

Previous-Row Attention Layer

Row Attention Layer

Encoder-Decoder Attention Layer

Column Attention Layer

Row Attention Layer

Previous-Row Attention Layer

Column Attention Layer

⋮

Previous-Row Attention Layer

Row Attention Layer

Encoder-Decoder Attention Layer

Column Attention Layer
Previous-Row Attention Layer

⋮

Layer Norm

×6

Encoder
Features

Attention
+

×3

Layer Norm

⋮
Encoder-Decoder Attention Layer

MLP

Row Attention Layer
Column Attention Layer
Lyrics Token Embedding
Next-Token Prediction

×3

+

Previous-Row Attention Layer
Encoder-Decoder Attention Layer
VQ Code Embedding
Next-Token Prediction

(c) The Scalable Transformer architecture, shown with the lyrics Transformer used in the
top-level prior. The Transformer layers use the three factorized attention types alternatingly,
i.e. repeating row, column, and previous-row attentions. In the top-level prior, the VQ
Transformer additionally includes interleaved encoder-decoder attention layers that apply
lyrics conditioning by attending on the activation of the last encoder layer.

(d) Each Transformer layer is a residual attention block, which performs
two residual operations, attention and
MLP, each prepended with layer normalization. Depending on the layer’s
type, it uses either one of the three factorized attentions or encoder-decoder
attention taking the lyrics features
from the encoder.

Figure 8. Detailed architecture of the music prior and upsampler models

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music

B.3. Hyperparameters
For all Transformers’ residual blocks, we use MLP blocks
with the same width as the model width, and attention blocks
with queries, keys, and values with width 0.25 times the
model width. For all convolutional residual blocks, we use
convolutions with same channels as the model width.
Sample rate
Sample length
Hop lengths
Embedding width
Residual block width
Residual blocks (per 2x downsample)
Conv filter size
Conv channels
Dilation growth rate
Commit weight β
Codebook EMA γ
Codebook size
Spectral loss STFT bins
Spectral loss STFT hop length
Spectral loss STFT window size
Initialization scale
Batch size
Training steps
Learning rate

44100
393216
8, 32, 128
64
64, 32, 32
8, 4, 4
3
32
3
0.02
0.99
2048
2048, 1024, 512
240, 120, 50
1200, 600, 240
0.02
256
384618
0.0003

Table 4. VQ-VAE hyperparameters

1B upsamplers
Sample length
Context length
Transformer width
Transformer layers
Attention heads
Factorized attention shape
Conditioner residual block width
Conditioner residual blocks
Conditioner conv filter size
Conditioner conv channels
Conditioner dilation growth rate
Conditioner dilation cycle
Initialization scale
Batch size
Training steps
Learning rate
Adam β2
Weight decay

262144, 65536
8192
1920
72
1
(128, 64)
1024
16
3
1024
3
8
0.004, 0.008
192, 184
265000, 279000
0.0003
0.95
0.01

Table 5. Middle- and bottom-level upsampler hyperparameters

5B prior
Sample length
Context length
Transformer width
Transformer self-attention layers
Attention heads
Factorized attention shape
Lyrics encoder tokens
Lyrics encoder width
Lyrics encoder layers
Lyrics encoder attention heads
Lyrics encoder factored attention shape
Encoder-Decoder attention layers
Initialization scale
Encoder initialization scale
Batch size
Training steps
Learning rate
Adam β2
Weight decay

1048576
8192
4800
72
8
(128, 64)
512
1280
18
4
(32, 16)
7
0.002
0.014
512
310500
0.00015
0.925
0.002

Table 6. Top-level prior hyperparameters

Jukebox: A Generative Model for Music

B.4. t-SNE Plot of Artists

Barry White

Tony Bennett
Natalie Cole

Fats Domino

Ray Noble

Barrington Levy

R&B Soul
R&B
Hip Hop
Rock
Pop
Reggae

Cab Calloway

Lou Rawls

Louis Prima

Donna Summer

The Platters

The Mills Brothers

Dinah Washington

Jazz
Blues
Country
Soundtrack
Classical

J immy Cliff
Sean Paul
Shaggy

Bobby Bland

Walter Gieseking

Nina Simone

Luther Vandross

Yann Tiersen
Bessie Smith

The Weeknd

Glenn Gould

Howard Shore

Garrick Ohlsson

Lonnie J ohnson
Ariana Grande

Franz Schubert
Dean Martin

Akon
Ed Sheeran

Ramin Djawadi
Yo-Yo Ma

Vangelis

Neil Diamond

Henry Mancini

T. Pain
Buck Owens

Kanye West
Migos

J ohann Sebastian Bach
Andrea Bocelli

O.S.T.R.

Hank Snow
The Beatles

Eddy Arnold
Van Morrison

The Beach Boys

Marty Robbins

Pink Floyd

Fleetwood Mac
Rod Stewart

ELO

The Beatles
George Harrison
Paul McCartney
John Lennon

Neil Young
Eagles

Ringo Starr

Billy Ray Cyrus

Cheap Trick

The Cure
Aerosmith

The Smashing Pumpkins

P!nk

Queen

Status Quo

Pearl Jam

Linkin Park

Figure 9. t-SNE of (artist, genre) embedding. The overall clustering shows very clearly how genres are related to one another. The
broadest of all, pop, is situated in the middle of rock, country, blues, hip hop, and many more. Soundtrack and classical form their own
island. Within a genre, we see a similar trend among artists. John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison and Ringo Starr are clustered
around The Beatles. Cheap Trick which has a number of Beatles covers is also found near. Because we are showing only about 400 artists
here, not all neighboring artists may be related. For an interactive version, we point to our blog post.

