FLUX.1 Kontext: Flow Matching for In-Context Image
Generation and Editing in Latent Space

arXiv:2506.15742v2 [cs.GR] 24 Jun 2025

Black Forest Labs∗
Stephen Batifol Andreas Blattmann Frederic Boesel Saksham Consul Cyril Diagne
Tim Dockhorn Jack English Zion English Patrick Esser Sumith Kulal
Kyle Lacey Yam Levi Cheng Li Dominik Lorenz Jonas Müller
Dustin Podell Robin Rombach Harry Saini Axel Sauer Luke Smith

Abstract
We present evaluation results for FLUX.1 Kontext, a generative flow matching
model that unifies image generation and editing. The model generates novel output
views by incorporating semantic context from text and image inputs. Using a simple
sequence concatenation approach, FLUX.1 Kontext handles both local editing
and generative in-context tasks within a single unified architecture. Compared to
current editing models that exhibit degradation in character consistency and stability
across multiple turns, we observe that FLUX.1 Kontext improved preservation of
objects and characters, leading to greater robustness in iterative workflows. The
model achieves competitive performance with current state-of-the-art systems while
delivering significantly faster generation times, enabling interactive applications
and rapid prototyping workflows. To validate these improvements, we introduce
KontextBench, a comprehensive benchmark with 1026 image-prompt pairs covering
five task categories: local editing, global editing, character reference, style reference
and text editing. Detailed evaluations show the superior performance of FLUX.1
Kontext in terms of both single-turn quality and multi-turn consistency, setting new
standards for unified image processing models.

1

Introduction

Images are a foundation of modern communication and form the basis for areas as diverse as social
media, e-commerce, scientific visualization, entertainment, and memes. As the volume and speed
of visual content increases, so does the demand for intuitive but faithful and accurate image editing.
Professional and casual users expect tools that preserve fine detail, maintain semantic coherence, and
respond to increasingly natural language commands. The advent of large-scale generative models
has changed this landscape, enabling purely text-driven image synthesis and modifications that were
previously impractical or impossible [11, 17, 41, 42, 40, 2, 12, 49, 21].
Traditional image processing pipelines work by directly manipulating pixel values or by applying
geometric and photometric transformations under explicit user control [14, 55]. In contrast, generative
processing uses deep learning models and their learned representations to synthesize content that
seamlessly fits into the new scene. Two complementary capabilities are central to this paradigm
• Local editing. Local, limited modifications that keep the surrounding context intact (e.g.
changing the color of a car while preserving the background or replacing the background
while keeping the subject in the foreground). Generative inpainting systems such as
LaMa [54], Latent Diffusion inpainting [42], RePaint [33], Stable Diffusion Inpainting variants2 , and FLUX.1 Fill3 make such context-aware edits instantaneous; see also Palette [45]
and Paint-by-Example [57]. Beyond inpainting, ControlNet [61] enables mask-guided
background replacement, while DragGAN [37] offers interactive point-based geometric
manipulation.
∗

Please cite this works as "Black Forest Labs (2025)"
https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-inpainting
3
https://huggingface.co/black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-Fill-dev
2

(a) Context image generated with FLUX.1.

(b) Image context from Figure 1a: “The bird is now
sitting in a bar and enjoying a beer.”

(c) Image context from Figure 1b:
“There are now two of these birds.”

(d) From Figure 1c: “Watch them from behind.”

(e) From Figure 1c: “The two bird characters are
now sitting in a movie theater.”

(f) From Figure 1c: “The two bird characters are now
grocery shopping.”

(g) From Figure 1f: “The two bird characters are now
celebrating a successful launch.”

Figure 1: Consistent character synthesis with FLUX.1 Kontext. Generated images can be used
iteratively as context for new generations, enabling applications such as storyboard generation and
iterative narrative creation.

2

(a) Input image

(b) “remove the thing from her face”

(c) “she is now taking a selfie in the streets of
Freiburg, it’s a lovely day out.”

(d) “it’s now snowing, everything is covered in snow.”

Figure 2: Iterative, instruction-driven editing. Starting from a reference photo (a), our model
successively applies three natural-language edits—first removing an occlusion (b), then relocating the
subject to Freiburg (c), and finally transforming the scene into snowy weather (d). Character, pose,
clothing, and overall photographic style remain consistent throughout the sequence.
• Generative editing. Extraction of a visual concept (e.g. a particular figure or logo), followed
by its faithful reproduction in new environments, potentially synthesized under a new
viewpoint or rendering in a new visual context. Similarly to in-context learning in large
language models, where the network learns a task from the examples provided in the prompt
without any parameter updates [6], the generator adapts its output to the conditioning context
on the fly. This property enables personalization of generative image and video models
without the need for finetuning [43] or LoRA training [19, 27, 20]. Early works on such
training-free subject-driven image synthesis include IP-Adapter [58] or retrieval-augmented
diffusion variants [7, 3].
Recent Advances. InstructPix2Pix [5] and subsequent work [4] demonstrated the promise of synthetic
instruction-response pairs for fine-tuning a diffusion model for image editing, while learning-free
methods for personalized text-to-image synthesis[13, 43, 24] enable image modification with off-theshelf, high-performance image generation models [42, 40]. Subsequent instruction-driven editors
such as Emu Edit [51], OmniGen [56], HiDream-E1[15] and ICEdit [62] – extend these ideas
to refined datasets and model architectures. Huang et al. [20] introduce in-context LoRAs for
diffusion transformers on specific tasks, where each task needs to train dedicated LoRA weights.
Novel proprietary systems embedded in multimodal LLMs (e.g., GPT-Image[36] and Gemini Native
Image Gen [23]) further blur the line between dialog and editing. Generative platforms such as
Midjourney[35] and RunwayML[44] integrate these advances into end-to-end creative workflows.
Shortcomings of recent approaches. In terms of results, current approaches struggle with three
major shortcomings: (i) instruction-based methods trained on synthetic pairs inherit the shortcomings
of their generation pipelines, limiting the variety and realism of achievable edits; (ii) maintaining
the accurate appearance of characters and objects across multiple edits remains an open problem,
hindering story-telling and brand-sensitive applications; (iii) in addition to lower quality compared to
3

denoising-based approaches, autoregressive editing models integrated into large multimodal systems
often come with long runtimes that are incompatible with interactive use.
Our Solution. We introduce FLUX.1 Kontext, a flow-based generative image processing model that
matches or exceeds the quality of state-of-the-art black-box systems while overcoming the above
limitations. FLUX.1 Kontext is a simple flow matching model trained using only a velocity prediction
target on a concatenated sequence of context and instruction tokens.
In particular, FLUX.1 Kontext offers:
• Character consistency: FLUX.1 Kontext excels at character preservation, including multiple, iterative edit turns.
• Interactive speed: FLUX.1 Kontext is fast. Both text-to-image and image-to-image application reach speeds for synthesising an image at 1024 × 1024 of 3–5 seconds.
• Iterative application: Fast inference and robust consistency allow users to refine an image
through multiple successive edits with minimal visual drift.

2

FLUX.1

FLUX.1 is a rectified flow transformer [12, 30, 32]
trained in the latent space of an image autoencoder [42]. We follow Rombach et al. [42] and
train a convolutional autoencoder with an adversarial objective from scratch. By scaling up the
training compute and using 16 latent channels, we
improve the reconstruction capabilities compared to
related models; see Section 2. Furthermore, FLUX.1
is built from a mix of double stream and single
stream [38] blocks. Double stream blocks employ
separate weights for image and text tokens, and mixing is done by applying the attention operation over
the concatenation of tokens. After passing the sequences through the double stream blocks, we concatenate them and apply 38 single stream blocks to
the image and text tokens. Finally, we discard the
text tokens and decode the image tokens.
To improve GPU utilization of single stream blocks,
we leverage fused feed-forward blocks inspired
by Dehghani et al. [8], which i) reduce the number
of modulation parameters in a feedforward block
by a factor of 2 and ii) fuse the attention input- and
output linear layers with that of the MLP, leading to
larger matrix-vector multiplications and thus more Figure 3: A fused DiT block equipped with
efficient training and inference. We utilize factorized rotary positional embeddings
three–dimensional Rotary Positional Embeddings
(3D RoPE) [53]. Every latent token is indexed by its space-time coordinates (t, h, w) (with t ≡ 0 for
single image inputs). See Figure 3 for a visualization.

3

FLUX.1 Kontext

Our goal is to learn a model that can generate images conditioned jointly on a text prompt and a
reference images. More formally, we aim to approximate the conditional distribution
p(x | y, c)

(1)

where x is the target image, y is a context image (or ∅), and c is a natural-language instruction.
Unlike classic text-to-image generation, this objective entails learning relations between images
themselves, mediated by c, so that the same network can >i) perform image-driven edits when y ̸= ∅,
and (ii) create new content from scratch when y = ∅.
4

Model
Flux-VAE
SD3-VAE [12]
SD3-TAE4
SDXL-VAE [40]
SD-VAE5

PDist ↓

SSIM ↑

PSNR ↑

0.332 ± 0.003
0.452 ± 0.004
0.746 ± 0.004
0.890 ± 0.005
0.949 ± 0.005

0.896 ± 0.004
0.858 ± 0.005
0.774 ± 0.014
0.748 ± 0.006
0.720 ± 0.004

31.1 ± 0.08
29.6 ± 0.07
27.9 ± 0.06
25.9 ± 0.07
25.0 ± 0.07

Table 1: Reconstruction quality comparison across different VAE architectures. All metrics computed
on 4096 ImageNet images. Values are mean ± standard error (rounded). See also Appendix B.

Figure 4: High-level overview of FLUX.1 Kontext, with input and context image on the left. Details
in Section 3.

To that end, let x ∈ X be an output (target) image, y ∈ X ∪ {∅} an optional context image, and c ∈ C
a text prompt. We model the conditional distribution pθ (x | y, c) such that the same network handles
in-context and local edits when y ̸= ∅ and free text-to-image generation when y = ∅. Training
starts from a FLUX.1 text-to-image checkpoint, and we collect and curate millions of relational pairs
(x | y, c) for optimization. In practice, we do not model images in pixel space but instead encode
them into a token sequence as discussed in the following paragraph.
Token sequence construction. Images are encoded into latent tokens by the frozen FLUX autoencoder. These context image tokens y are then appended to the image tokens x and fed into the
visual stream of the model. This simple sequence concatenation (i) supports different input/output
resolutions and aspect ratios, and (ii) readily extends to multiple images y1 , y2 , . . . , yN . Channel-wise
concatenation of x and y was also tested but in initial experiments we found this design choice to
perform worse.
We encode positional information via 3D RoPE embeddings, where the embeddings for the context y
receive a constant offset for all context tokens. We treat the offset as a virtual time step that cleanly
separates the context and target blocks while leaving their internal spatial structure intact. Concretely,
if a token position is denoted by the triplet u = (t, h, w), then we set ux = (0, h, w) for the target
tokens and for context tokens we set
uyi = ( i, h, w ),

i = 1, . . . , N,

Rectified-flow objective. We train with a rectified flow–matching loss


Lθ = E t∼p(t), x,y,c ∥vθ (zt , t, y, c) − (ε − x)∥22 ,

(2)

(3)

where zt is the linearly interpolated latent between x and noise ε ∼ N (0, 1); zt = (1 − t)x + tε.
We use a logit normal shift schedule (see Appendix A.2) for p(t; µ, σ = 1.0), where we change the
mode µ depending on the resolution of the data during training. When sampling pure text–image
pairs (y = ∅) we omit all tokens y, preserving the text-to-image generation capability of the model.
5

(a) Input image

(b) “Using this style, a kid (c) “Using this style, a
on a bicycles rolls through
grand piano made of
desert ruins, spotlights
shifting mirrors performs
scanning ancient scrolls
itself for an audience of
projected as holographic
empty velvet chairs in
zero-gravity.”
sandstorms.”

(e) Input image

(f) “Using this style, a
half-folded metropolis
hangs from steel strings
over an ink-wash ocean
while cranes of light
sketch new streets in
mid-air.”

(d) “Using this style, a
spiral of vintage cameras
captures its own collapse,
each flash freeze-framing
a different timeline.”

(g) “Using this style, a
(h) “Using this style, a
dapper octopus conducts a bunny, a dog and a cat are
jazz duo of owls on a
having a tea party seated
shimmering moonlit
around a small white
bandstand.”
table.”

Figure 5: Style Reference. Given an input image, the model extracts its artistic style and applies it to
generate diverse new scenes while preserving the original stylistic characteristics.

Adversarial Diffusion Distillation Sampling of a flow matching model obtained by optimizing
Equation (3) typically involves solving an ordinary or stochastic differential equation [30, 1], using
50–250 guided [16] network evaluations. While samples obtained through such a procedure are of
good quality for a well-trained model vΘ , this comes with a few potential drawbacks: First, such
multi-step sampling is slow, rendering model-serving at scale expensive and hindering low-latency,
interactive applications. Moreover, guidance may occasionally introduce visual artifacts such as
over-saturated samples. We tackle both challenges using latent adversarial diffusion distillation
(LADD) [47, 48, 49], reducing the number of sampling steps while increasing the quality of the
samples through adversarial training.
Implementation details. Starting from a pure text-to-image checkpoint, we jointly fine-tune the
model on image-to-image and text-to-image tasks following Equation (3). While our formulation
naturally covers multiple input images, we focus on single context images for conditioning at this
time. FLUX.1 Kontext [pro] is trained with the flow objective followed by LADD [48]. We obtain
FLUX.1 Kontext [dev] through guidance-distillation into a 12B diffusion transformer following the
techniques outlined in Meng et al. [34]. To optimize FLUX.1 Kontext [dev] performance on edit tasks,
we focus exclusively on image-to-image training, i.e. do not train on the pure text-to-image task for
FLUX.1 Kontext [dev]. We incorporate safety training measures including classifier-based filtering
and adversarial training to prevent the generation of non-consensual intimate imagery (NCII) and
child sexual abuse material (CSAM).
We use FSDP2 [29] with mixed precision: all-gather operations are performed in bfloat16 while
gradient reduce-scatter uses float32 for improved numerical stability. We use selective activation
6

(a) Input image

(b) “extract only the skirt over a
white background, product
photography style”

(c) “show me an extreme closeup of
the fabric”

Figure 6: Product Photography. (a) Input image showing the full outfit. (b) Extracted skirt on
a white background in a product-photography style. (c) Extreme close-up of the skirt’s fabric,
highlighting texture and pattern details.

checkpointing [26] to reduce maximum VRAM usage. To improve throughput, we use Flash
Attention 3 [50] and regional compilation of individual Transformer blocks.

4

Evaluations & Applications

In this section, we evaluate FLUX.1 Kontext’s performance and demonstrate its capabilities. We
first introduce KontextBench, a novel benchmark featuring real-world image editing challenges
crowd-sourced from users. We then present our primary evaluation: a systematic comparison of
FLUX.1 Kontext against state-of-the-art text-to-image and image-to-image synthesis methods, where
we demonstrate competitive performance across diverse editing tasks. Finally, we explore FLUX.1
Kontext’s practical applications, including iterative editing workflows, style transfer, visual cue
editing, and text editing.
4.1

KontextBench – Crowd-sourced Real-World Benchmark for In-Context Tasks

Existing benchmarks for editing models are often limited when it comes to capturing real-world usage.
InstructPix2Pix [5] relies on synthetic Stable Diffusion samples and GPT-generated instructions,
creating inherent bias. MagicBrush [60], while using authentic MS-COCO images, is constrained
by DALLE-2’s [41] capabilities during data collection. Other benchmarks like Emu-Edit [51]
use lower-resolution images with unrealistic distributions and focus solely on editing tasks, while
DreamBench [39] lacks broad coverage and GEdit-bench [31] does not represent the full scope of
modern multimodal models. IntelligentBench [9] remains unavailable with only 300 examples of
uncertain task coverage.
To address these gaps, we compile KontextBench from crowd-sourced real-world use cases. The
benchmark comprises 1026 unique image-prompt pairs derived from 108 base images including
personal photos, CC-licensed art, public domain images, and AI-generated content. It spans five
core tasks: local instruction editing (416 examples), global instruction editing (262), text editing
(92), style reference (63), and character reference (193). We found that the scale of the benchmark
provides a good balance between reliable human evaluation and comprehensive coverage of realworld applications. We will publish this benchmark including the samples of FLUX.1 Kontext and all
reported baselines.
7

(a) Text-to-image inference latency

(b) Image-to-image inference latency

Figure 7: Median inference latency [seconds] for 1024 × 1024 generation across models (lower is
better). FLUX.1 Kontext achieves competitive speeds for both text-to-image and image-to-image
tasks.
4.2

State-of-the-Art Comparison

FLUX.1 Kontext is designed to perform both text-to-image (T2I) and image-to-image (I2I) synthesis.
We evaluate our approach against the strongest proprietary and open-weight models in both domains.
We evaluate FLUX.1 Kontext [pro] and [dev]. As stated above, for [dev] we exclusively focus on
image-to-image tasks. Additionally, we introduce FLUX.1 Kontext [max], which uses more compute
to improve generative performance.
Image-to-Image Results. For image editing evaluation, we assess performance across multiple
editing tasks: image quality, local editing, character reference (CREF), style reference (SREF), text
editing, and computational efficiency. CREF enables consistent generation of specific characters
or objects across novel settings, whereas SREF allows style transfer from reference images while
maintaining semantic control. We compare different APIs and find that our models offer the fastest
latency (cf. Figure 7b), outperforming related models by up to an order of magnitude in speed
difference. In our human evaluation (Figure 8), we find that FLUX.1 Kontext [max] and [pro] are
the best solution in the categories local and text editing, and for general CREF. We also calculate
quantitative scores for CREF, to asses changes in facial characteristics between input and output
images we use AuraFace6 to extract facial embeddings before and after and edit and compare both,
see Figure 8f. In alignment with our human evaluations, FLUX.1 Kontext outperforms all other
models. For global editing and SREF, FLUX.1 Kontext is second only to gpt-image-1, and Gen-4
References, respectively.
Overall, FLUX.1 Kontext offers state-of-the-art character consistency, and editing capabilities, while
outperforming competing models such as GPT-Image-1 by up to an order of magnitude in speed.
Text-to-Image Results. Current T2I benchmarks predominantly focus on general preference, typically asking questions like “which image do you prefer?”. We observe that this broad evaluation
criterion often favors a characteristic “AI aesthetic” meaning over-saturated colors, excessive focus
on central subjects, pronounced bokeh effects, and convergence toward homogeneous styles. We term
this phenomenon bakeyness. To address this limitation, we decompose T2I evaluation into five distinct
dimensions: prompt following, aesthetic (“which image do you find more aesthetically pleasing”),
realism (“which image looks more real”), typography accuracy, and inference speed. We evaluate on
1 000 diverse test prompts compiled from academic benchmarks (DrawBench [46], PartiPrompts [59])
and real user queries. We refer to this benchmark as Internal-T2I-Bench in the following. In addition,
we complement this benchmark with additional evaluations on GenAI bench [28].
In T2I, FLUX.1 Kontext demonstrates balanced performance across evaluation categories (see
Figure 9). Although competing models excel in certain domains, this often comes at the expense of
other categories. For instance, Recraft delivers strong aesthetic quality but limited prompt adherence,
whereas GPT-Image-1 shows the inverse overall performance pattern. FLUX.1 Kontext consistently
improves performance across categories over its predecessor FLUX1.1 [pro]. We also observe
progressive gains from FLUX.1 Kontext [pro] to FLUX.1 Kontext [max]. We highlight samples in
Fig. 14.
6

https://huggingface.co/fal/AuraFace-v1

8

(a) Text Editing

(b) Local Editing

(c) Style Reference

(d) Global Editing

(e) Character Reference

(f) AuraFace Similarity

Figure 8: Image-to-image evaluation on KontextBench. We show evaluation results across six
in-context image generation tasks. FLUX.1 Kontext [pro] consistently ranks among the top performers
across all tasks, achieving the highest scores in Text Editing and Character Preservation.

(a) Aesthetics (Internal-T2I-Bench)

(b) Prompt Following
(Internal-T2I-Bench)

(c) Typography
(Internal-T2I-Bench)

(d) Realism (Internal-T2I-Bench)

(e) Aesthetics (GenAI)

(f) Prompt Following (GenAI)

Figure 9: Text-to-image evaluation on Internal-t2i-bench. We report evaluation results across
multiple quality dimensions. FLUX.1 Kontext models demonstrate competitive performance across
aesthetics, prompt following, typography, and realism benchmarks.
4.3

Iterative Workflows

Maintaining character and object consistency across multiple edits is crucial for brand-sensitive
and storytelling applications. Current state-of-the-art approaches suffer from noticeable visual
drift: characters lose identity and objects lose defining features with each edit. In Fig. 12, we
demonstrate character identity drift across edit sequences produced by FLUX.1 Kontext, Gen-4, and
GPT-Image-high. We additionally compute the cosine similarity of AuraFace [10, 22] embeddings
between the input and images generated via successive edits, highlighting the slower drift of FLUX.1
Kontext relative to competing methods. Consistency is essential: marketing needs stable brand
characters, media production demands asset continuity, and e-commerce must preserve product
details. Applications enabled by FLUX.1 Kontext’s reliable consistency are shown in Fig. 10 and
Fig. 11.

9

(a) Input image

(b) “make me a matching flower vase, product
photography set against a white wall, sitting on a
wooden desk, put some nice flowers in it”

(c) “change the vase base color to black”

Figure 10: Iterative, product-style editing. Starting from the reference bowl (a), our model first
generates a matching flower vase in a tabletop studio setting with fresh flowers (b), and subsequently
changes the vase’s base color to black while preserving the floral pattern, lighting, and composition (c).

(a) Input image

(b) “tilt her head towards the
camera”

(c) “make her laugh”

Figure 11: Sequential, facial-expression editing. Beginning with the profile reference (a), our model
first reorients the subject toward the camera (b) and then changes her expression to a spontaneous
laugh (c), while preserving background, clothing and lighting.

10

Figure 12: Iterative editing based on the same starting image with the same prompts and different
models (top: FLUX.1 Kontext, middle: gpt-image-1, bottom: Runway Gen4). Below are face
similarity scores between the edited images and the edited images at different steps. For the last edit
("Add sunglasses"), a relative drop is expected due to partial exclusion of the face.

(a) Input image

(b) “Add hats in
the boxes”

(c) Input image

(d) “Replace
‘MONTREAL’
with
‘FREIBURG’ ”

(e) Input image

(f) “Replace
‘SYNC &
BLOOM’ with
‘FLUX & JOY’ ”

Figure 13: FLUX.1 Kontext is able to leverage visual cues like bounding boxes and edit text while
keeping the style.

11

Figure 14: Text-to-image samples by FLUX.1 Kontext with low bakeyness, diverse styles, and accurate
typography.

4.4

Specialized Applications

FLUX.1 Kontext supports several applications beyond standard generation. Style reference (SREF),
first popularized by Midjourney [35] and commonly implemented via IP-Adapters [58], enables style
transfer from reference images while maintaining semantic control (see Section 4.2). Additionally, the
model supports intuitive editing through visual cues, responding to geometric markers like red ellipses
to guide targeted modifications. It also provides sophisticated text editing capabilities, including logo
refinement, spelling corrections, and style adaptations while preserving surrounding context. We
demonstrate style reference in Fig. 5 and visual cue-based editing in Fig. 13.

5

Discussion

We introduced FLUX.1 Kontext, a flow matching model that combines in-context image generation
and editing in a single framework. Through simple sequence concatenation and training recipes,
FLUX.1 Kontext achieves state-of-the-art performance while addressing key limitations such as
character drift during multi-turn edits, slow inference, and low output quality. Our contributions
include a unified architecture that handles multiple processing tasks, superior character consistency
across iterations, interactive speed, and KontextBench: A real-world benchmark with 1 026 imageprompt pairs. Our extensive evaluations reveal that FLUX.1 Kontext is comparable to proprietary
systems while enabling fast, multi-turn creative workflows.
Limitations. FLUX.1 Kontext exhibits a few limitations in its current implementation. Excessive
multi-turn editing can introduce visual artifacts that degrade image quality, see Figure 15. The model
occasionally fails to follow instructions accurately, ignoring specific prompt requirements. In addition,
the distillation process can introduce visual artifacts that impact the fidelity of the output.
Future work should focus on extending to multiple image inputs, further scaling, and reducing
inference latency to unlock real-time applications. A natural extension of our approach is to include
edits in the video domain. Most importantly, reducing degradation during multi-turn editing would
enable infinitely fluid content creation. The release of FLUX.1 Kontext and KontextBench provides a
solid foundation and a comprehensive evaluation framework to drive unified image generation and
editing.

12

(a) Input image

(b) “The woman is now wearing a (c) “...green dress...beach scene...tv
green dress, the painting in the
says "Kontext"...table cloth is also
back now shows a beach scene, the
now red and the lighting is a bit
text on the TV says "Kontext" now”
warmer”

(d) Input image

(e) “move the coffee to the left”

(f) Input image

(g) After six iterative edits.

Figure 15: Editing failure cases. Top row: An example for identity degradation: While the center
image shows a good edit, preserving character identity the right one (using a slightly modified prompt)
comes with significant identity loss. Middle row: Scene modification instead of object movement:
the model adds milk foam rather than repositioning the mug. Bottom row: After six iterative edits,
samples can exhibit visible artifacts.

13

A

Image Generation using Flow Matching

A.1

Primer on Rectified Flow Matching

For training our models, we construct forward noising processes in the latent space of an image
autoencoder as
zt = at x0 + bt ε,

(4)

with x0 ∼ pdata , ε ∼ N (0, 1), and the coefficients at and bt define the log signal-to-noise ratio
(log-SNR) [25]
λt = log

a2t
b2t

(5)

Further, we use the conditional flow matching loss [30]
LCFM = Et∼p(t),ε∼N (0,1) ||vΘ (zt , t) −

a′t
bt
zt + λ′t ε||22
at
2

(6)

For rectified flow models [32], at = 1 − t and bt = t, and thus
LCFM = Et∼p(t),ε∼N (0,1),x0 ∼pdata ||vΘ (zt , t) + x0 − ε||22

(7)
2

2

/σ )
√
and we sample t from a Logit-Normal Distribution [12]: p(t) = exp (−0.5·(logit(t)−µ)
, where
σ 2π·(1−t)·t
t
logit(t) = log 1−t
. From the definition of the Logit-Normal Distribution, it follows that a random
variable Y = logit(t) ∼ N (µ, σ).

A.2

Expressing shifting of the timestep schedule via the Logit-Normal Distribution

Previous work on high-resolution image synthesis introduced an additional shift of the timestep
sampling (and, equivalently, the log-SNR schedule) via a parameter α [12, 18]. Esser et al. [12]
empirically demonstrated that α = 3.0 worked best when increasing the image resolution from
2562 to 10242 . In the following, we show that this shifting can be expressed via the Logit-Normal
Distribution.
Consider the log-SNR of a rectified flow forward process with µ = 0 and σ = 1:
1−t
λ0,1
= 2 log
= −2logit(t),
t
t

(8)

where logit(t) ∼ N (0, 1). Expressing the log-SNR for arbitrary µ and σ gives
λµ,σ
= −2(σ · logit(t) + µ) = σ · λt0,1 − 2µ .
t

(9)

The α-shifted log-SNR [12, 18] is obtained as
0,1
λα
t = λt − 2 log α .

(10)

Comparing Equation (9) and Equation (10), we identify µ = log α for σ = 1.0, i.e. a shift of α = 3.0
would correspond to a logit-normal distribution with µ = log 3.0 = 1.0986 and σ = 1.0.
We can further express the shifted log-SNR as a function of shifted timesteps t′
λt′ = 2 log

1 − t′
1−t
= σλ0,1
− 2µ
t − 2µ = 2σ log
t′
t

and solve for t′ :
t′ =

eµ
eµ + (1/t − 1)σ
14

(11)

(12)

For σ = 1.0 and µ = log α this recovers the redistribution function for the timesteps proposed in [12]
αt
t′ = 1+(α−1)t
, as expected. This generalized shifting formula 9 can be useful both for training and
via 12 for inference.

B

VAE Evaluation Details

We compare our VAE with related models using three reconstruction metrics, namely, SSIM, PSNR,
and the Perceptual Distance (PDist) in VGG [52] feature space. All metrics are computed over 4 096
random ImageNet evaluation images at resolution 256 × 256. Section 2 shows the mean and the
standard deviation over the 4 096 inputs.

References
[1] Michael S. Albergo and Eric Vanden-Eijnden. Building normalizing flows with stochastic
interpolants, 2022. 6
[2] James Betker, Gabriel Goh, Li Jing, Tim Brooks, Jianfeng Wang, Linjie Li, Long Ouyang,
Juntang Zhuang, Joyce Lee, Yufei Guo, et al. Improving image generation with better captions.
Computer Science. https://cdn. openai. com/papers/dall-e-3. pdf, 2(3), 2023. 1
[3] Andreas Blattmann, Robin Rombach, Kaan Oktay, Jonas Müller, and Björn Ommer. Retrievalaugmented diffusion models. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 35:15309–
15324, 2022. 3
[4] Frederic Boesel and Robin Rombach. Improving image editing models with generative data
refinement. In Tiny Papers @ ICLR, 2024. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:
271461432. 3
[5] Tim Brooks, Aleksander Holynski, and Alexei A Efros. Instructpix2pix: Learning to follow
image editing instructions. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, pages 18392–18402, 2023. 3, 7
[6] Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal,
Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. Language models are
few-shot learners. Advances in neural information processing systems, 33:1877–1901, 2020. 3
[7] Wenhu Chen, Hexiang Hu, Chitwan Saharia, and William W Cohen. Re-imagen: Retrievalaugmented text-to-image generator. arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.14491, 2022. 3
[8] Mostafa Dehghani, Josip Djolonga, Basil Mustafa, Piotr Padlewski, Jonathan Heek, Justin
Gilmer, Andreas Peter Steiner, Mathilde Caron, Robert Geirhos, Ibrahim Alabdulmohsin, et al.
Scaling vision transformers to 22 billion parameters. In International Conference on Machine
Learning, pages 7480–7512. PMLR, 2023. 4
[9] Chaorui Deng, Deyao Zhu, Kunchang Li, Chenhui Gou, Feng Li, Zeyu Wang, Shu Zhong,
Weihao Yu, Xiaonan Nie, Ziang Song, et al. Emerging properties in unified multimodal
pretraining. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.14683, 2025. 7
[10] Jiankang Deng, Jia Guo, Niannan Xue, and Stefanos Zafeiriou. Arcface: Additive angular
margin loss for deep face recognition. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition, pages 4690–4699, 2019. 9
[11] Patrick Esser, Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, and Bjorn Ommer. Imagebart: Bidirectional
context with multinomial diffusion for autoregressive image synthesis. Advances in neural
information processing systems, 34:3518–3532, 2021. 1
[12] Patrick Esser, Sumith Kulal, Andreas Blattmann, Rahim Entezari, Jonas Müller, Harry Saini,
Yam Levi, Dominik Lorenz, Axel Sauer, Frederic Boesel, Dustin Podell, Tim Dockhorn, Zion
English, Kyle Lacey, Alex Goodwin, Yannik Marek, and Robin Rombach. Scaling rectified flow
transformers for high-resolution image synthesis, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.03206.
1, 4, 5, 14, 15
15

[13] Rinon Gal, Yuval Alaluf, Yuval Atzmon, Or Patashnik, Amit H Bermano, Gal Chechik, and
Daniel Cohen-Or. An image is worth one word: Personalizing text-to-image generation using
textual inversion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2208.01618, 2022. 3
[14] Rafael C Gonzalez. Digital image processing. Pearson education india, 2009. 1
[15] HiDream-ai. Hidream-e1: Instruction-based image editing model, 2025. URL https://github.
com/HiDream-ai/HiDream-E1. 3
[16] Jonathan Ho and Tim Salimans. Classifier-free diffusion guidance, 2022. 6
[17] Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising diffusion probabilistic models, 2020. 1
[18] Emiel Hoogeboom, Jonathan Heek, and Tim Salimans. Simple diffusion: End-to-end diffusion
for high resolution images, 2023. 14
[19] Edward J Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang,
Lu Wang, Weizhu Chen, et al. Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models. ICLR, 1
(2):3, 2022. 3
[20] Lianghua Huang, Wei Wang, Zhi-Fan Wu, Yupeng Shi, Huanzhang Dou, Chen Liang, Yutong
Feng, Yu Liu, and Jingren Zhou. In-context lora for diffusion transformers. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.23775, 2024. 3
[21] Imagen-Team-Google, :, Jason Baldridge, Jakob Bauer, Mukul Bhutani, Nicole Brichtova,
Andrew Bunner, Lluis Castrejon, Kelvin Chan, Yichang Chen, Sander Dieleman, Yuqing Du,
Zach Eaton-Rosen, Hongliang Fei, Nando de Freitas, Yilin Gao, Evgeny Gladchenko, Sergio Gómez Colmenarejo, Mandy Guo, Alex Haig, Will Hawkins, Hexiang Hu, Huilian Huang,
Tobenna Peter Igwe, Christos Kaplanis, Siavash Khodadadeh, Yelin Kim, Ksenia Konyushkova,
Karol Langner, Eric Lau, Rory Lawton, Shixin Luo, Soňa Mokrá, Henna Nandwani, Yasumasa
Onoe, Aäron van den Oord, Zarana Parekh, Jordi Pont-Tuset, Hang Qi, Rui Qian, Deepak
Ramachandran, Poorva Rane, Abdullah Rashwan, Ali Razavi, Robert Riachi, Hansa Srinivasan,
Srivatsan Srinivasan, Robin Strudel, Benigno Uria, Oliver Wang, Su Wang, Austin Waters, Chris
Wolff, Auriel Wright, Zhisheng Xiao, Hao Xiong, Keyang Xu, Marc van Zee, Junlin Zhang,
Katie Zhang, Wenlei Zhou, Konrad Zolna, Ola Aboubakar, Canfer Akbulut, Oscar Akerlund,
Isabela Albuquerque, Nina Anderson, Marco Andreetto, Lora Aroyo, Ben Bariach, David
Barker, Sherry Ben, Dana Berman, Courtney Biles, Irina Blok, Pankil Botadra, Jenny Brennan,
Karla Brown, John Buckley, Rudy Bunel, Elie Bursztein, Christina Butterfield, Ben Caine,
Viral Carpenter, Norman Casagrande, Ming-Wei Chang, Solomon Chang, Shamik Chaudhuri,
Tony Chen, John Choi, Dmitry Churbanau, Nathan Clement, Matan Cohen, Forrester Cole,
Mikhail Dektiarev, Vincent Du, Praneet Dutta, Tom Eccles, Ndidi Elue, Ashley Feden, Shlomi
Fruchter, Frankie Garcia, Roopal Garg, Weina Ge, Ahmed Ghazy, Bryant Gipson, Andrew
Goodman, Dawid Górny, Sven Gowal, Khyatti Gupta, Yoni Halpern, Yena Han, Susan Hao,
Jamie Hayes, Jonathan Heek, Amir Hertz, Ed Hirst, Emiel Hoogeboom, Tingbo Hou, Heidi
Howard, Mohamed Ibrahim, Dirichi Ike-Njoku, Joana Iljazi, Vlad Ionescu, William Isaac,
Reena Jana, Gemma Jennings, Donovon Jenson, Xuhui Jia, Kerry Jones, Xiaoen Ju, Ivana Kajic,
Christos Kaplanis, Burcu Karagol Ayan, Jacob Kelly, Suraj Kothawade, Christina Kouridi, Ira
Ktena, Jolanda Kumakaw, Dana Kurniawan, Dmitry Lagun, Lily Lavitas, Jason Lee, Tao Li,
Marco Liang, Maggie Li-Calis, Yuchi Liu, Javier Lopez Alberca, Matthieu Kim Lorrain, Peggy
Lu, Kristian Lum, Yukun Ma, Chase Malik, John Mellor, Thomas Mensink, Inbar Mosseri,
Tom Murray, Aida Nematzadeh, Paul Nicholas, Signe Nørly, João Gabriel Oliveira, Guillermo
Ortiz-Jimenez, Michela Paganini, Tom Le Paine, Roni Paiss, Alicia Parrish, Anne Peckham,
Vikas Peswani, Igor Petrovski, Tobias Pfaff, Alex Pirozhenko, Ryan Poplin, Utsav Prabhu, Yuan
Qi, Matthew Rahtz, Cyrus Rashtchian, Charvi Rastogi, Amit Raul, Ali Razavi, Sylvestre-Alvise
Rebuffi, Susanna Ricco, Felix Riedel, Dirk Robinson, Pankaj Rohatgi, Bill Rosgen, Sarah
Rumbley, Moonkyung Ryu, Anthony Salgado, Tim Salimans, Sahil Singla, Florian Schroff,
Candice Schumann, Tanmay Shah, Eleni Shaw, Gregory Shaw, Brendan Shillingford, Kaushik
Shivakumar, Dennis Shtatnov, Zach Singer, Evgeny Sluzhaev, Valerii Sokolov, Thibault Sottiaux, Florian Stimberg, Brad Stone, David Stutz, Yu-Chuan Su, Eric Tabellion, Shuai Tang,
David Tao, Kurt Thomas, Gregory Thornton, Andeep Toor, Cristian Udrescu, Aayush Upadhyay,
Cristina Vasconcelos, Alex Vasiloff, Andrey Voynov, Amanda Walker, Luyu Wang, Miaosen
16

Wang, Simon Wang, Stanley Wang, Qifei Wang, Yuxiao Wang, Ágoston Weisz, Olivia Wiles,
Chenxia Wu, Xingyu Federico Xu, Andrew Xue, Jianbo Yang, Luo Yu, Mete Yurtoglu, Ali
Zand, Han Zhang, Jiageng Zhang, Catherine Zhao, Adilet Zhaxybay, Miao Zhou, Shengqi Zhu,
Zhenkai Zhu, Dawn Bloxwich, Mahyar Bordbar, Luis C. Cobo, Eli Collins, Shengyang Dai,
Tulsee Doshi, Anca Dragan, Douglas Eck, Demis Hassabis, Sissie Hsiao, Tom Hume, Koray
Kavukcuoglu, Helen King, Jack Krawczyk, Yeqing Li, Kathy Meier-Hellstern, Andras Orban,
Yury Pinsky, Amar Subramanya, Oriol Vinyals, Ting Yu, and Yori Zwols. Imagen 3, 2024. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.07009. 1
[22] isidentical. Introducing auraface: Open-source face recognition and identity preservation
models. https://huggingface.co/blog/isidentical/auraface, 2024. Accessed: 2025-05-26. 9
Experiment with gemini 2.0 flash na[23] Kat Kampf and Nicole Brichtova.
tive image generation,
2025.
URL https://developers.googleblog.com/en/
experiment-with-gemini-20-flash-native-image-generation/. 3
[24] Bahjat Kawar, Shiran Zada, Oran Lang, Omer Tov, Huiwen Chang, Tali Dekel, Inbar Mosseri,
and Michal Irani. Imagic: Text-based real image editing with diffusion models, 2023. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.09276. 3
[25] Diederik P Kingma and Ruiqi Gao. Understanding diffusion objectives as the elbo with simple
data augmentation. In Thirty-seventh Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems,
2023. 14
[26] Vijay Anand Korthikanti, Jared Casper, Sangkug Lym, Lawrence McAfee, Michael Andersch, Mohammad Shoeybi, and Bryan Catanzaro. Reducing activation recomputation in large
transformer models. Proceedings of Machine Learning and Systems, 5:341–353, 2023. 7
[27] Nupur Kumari, Bingliang Zhang, Richard Zhang, Eli Shechtman, and Jun-Yan Zhu. Multiconcept customization of text-to-image diffusion. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference
on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 1931–1941, 2023. 3
[28] Baiqi Li, Zhiqiu Lin, Deepak Pathak, Jiayao Li, Yixin Fei, Kewen Wu, Tiffany Ling, Xide
Xia, Pengchuan Zhang, Graham Neubig, et al. Genai-bench: Evaluating and improving
compositional text-to-visual generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.13743, 2024. 8
[29] Wanchao Liang, Tianyu Liu, Less Wright, Will Constable, Andrew Gu, Chien-Chin Huang,
Iris Zhang, Wei Feng, Howard Huang, Junjie Wang, et al. Torchtitan: One-stop pytorch native
solution for production ready llm pre-training. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.06511, 2024. 6
[30] Yaron Lipman, Ricky T. Q. Chen, Heli Ben-Hamu, Maximilian Nickel, and Matthew Le. Flow
matching for generative modeling. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2023. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=PqvMRDCJT9t. 4, 6, 14
[31] Shiyu Liu, Yucheng Han, Peng Xing, Fukun Yin, Rui Wang, Wei Cheng, Jiaqi Liao, Yingming
Wang, Honghao Fu, Chunrui Han, et al. Step1x-edit: A practical framework for general image
editing. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.17761, 2025. 7
[32] Xingchao Liu, Chengyue Gong, and Qiang Liu. Flow straight and fast: Learning to generate
and transfer data with rectified flow, 2022. 4, 14
[33] Andreas Lugmayr, Martin Danelljan, Andres Romero, Fisher Yu, Radu Timofte, and Luc
Van Gool. Repaint: Inpainting using denoising diffusion probabilistic models. In Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 11461–11471,
2022. 1
[34] Chenlin Meng, Robin Rombach, Ruiqi Gao, Diederik Kingma, Stefano Ermon, Jonathan Ho,
and Tim Salimans. On distillation of guided diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 14297–14306, 2023. 6
[35] Midjourney. Midjourney, 2025. URL https://www.midjourney.com/home. 3, 12
[36] OpenAI.
Introducing 4o image generation, 2025.
introducing-4o-image-generation/. 3
17

URL https://openai.com/index/

[37] Xingang Pan, Ayush Tewari, Thomas Leimkühler, Lingjie Liu, Abhimitra Meka, and Christian
Theobalt. Drag your gan: Interactive point-based manipulation on the generative image manifold.
In ACM SIGGRAPH 2023 conference proceedings, pages 1–11, 2023. 1
[38] William Peebles and Saining Xie. Scalable diffusion models with transformers. In 2023
IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV). IEEE, 2023. doi: 10.1109/
iccv51070.2023.00387. URL http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICCV51070.2023.00387. 4
[39] Yuang Peng, Yuxin Cui, Haomiao Tang, Zekun Qi, Runpei Dong, Jing Bai, Chunrui Han, Zheng
Ge, Xiangyu Zhang, and Shu-Tao Xia. Dreambench++: A human-aligned benchmark for
personalized image generation, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.16855. 7
[40] Dustin Podell, Zion English, Kyle Lacey, Andreas Blattmann, Tim Dockhorn, Jonas Müller, Joe
Penna, and Robin Rombach. Sdxl: Improving latent diffusion models for high-resolution image
synthesis, 2023. 1, 3, 5
[41] Aditya Ramesh, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alex Nichol, Casey Chu, and Mark Chen. Hierarchical
text-conditional image generation with clip latents, 2022. 1, 7
[42] Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, and Bjorn Ommer. Highresolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models. In 2022 IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). IEEE, 2022. doi: 10.1109/cvpr52688.2022.
01042. URL http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/CVPR52688.2022.01042. 1, 3, 4
[43] Nataniel Ruiz, Yuanzhen Li, Varun Jampani, Yael Pritch, Michael Rubinstein, and Kfir Aberman.
Dreambooth: Fine tuning text-to-image diffusion models for subject-driven generation, 2023.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.12242. 3
[44] Inc. Runway AI. Runway | tools for human imagination, 2025. URL https://runwayml.com/. 3
[45] Chitwan Saharia, William Chan, Huiwen Chang, Chris Lee, Jonathan Ho, Tim Salimans, David
Fleet, and Mohammad Norouzi. Palette: Image-to-image diffusion models. In ACM SIGGRAPH
2022 Conference Proceedings, pages 1–10, 2022. 1
[46] Chitwan Saharia, William Chan, Saurabh Saxena, Lala Li, Jay Whang, Emily L Denton,
Kamyar Ghasemipour, Raphael Gontijo Lopes, Burcu Karagol Ayan, Tim Salimans, et al.
Photorealistic text-to-image diffusion models with deep language understanding. Advances in
neural information processing systems, 35:36479–36494, 2022. 8
[47] Axel Sauer, Kashyap Chitta, Jens Müller, and Andreas Geiger. Projected gans converge faster.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2021. 6
[48] Axel Sauer, Dominik Lorenz, Andreas Blattmann, and Robin Rombach. Adversarial diffusion
distillation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.17042, 2023. 6
[49] Axel Sauer, Frederic Boesel, Tim Dockhorn, Andreas Blattmann, Patrick Esser, and Robin
Rombach. Fast high-resolution image synthesis with latent adversarial diffusion distillation,
2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12015. 1, 6
[50] Jay Shah, Ganesh Bikshandi, Ying Zhang, Vijay Thakkar, Pradeep Ramani, and Tri Dao.
Flashattention-3: Fast and accurate attention with asynchrony and low-precision. Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:68658–68685, 2024. 7
[51] Shelly Sheynin, Adam Polyak, Uriel Singer, Yuval Kirstain, Amit Zohar, Oron Ashual, Devi
Parikh, and Yaniv Taigman. Emu edit: Precise image editing via recognition and generation
tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.10089, 2023. 3, 7
[52] Karen Simonyan and Andrew Zisserman. Very deep convolutional networks for large-scale
image recognition. arXiv preprint arXiv:1409.1556, 2014. 15
[53] Jianlin Su, Murtadha Ahmed, Yu Lu, Shengfeng Pan, Wen Bo, and Yunfeng Liu. Roformer:
Enhanced transformer with rotary position embedding. Neurocomputing, 568:127063, 2024. 4
18

[54] Roman Suvorov, Elizaveta Logacheva, Anton Mashikhin, Anastasia Remizova, Arsenii Ashukha,
Aleksei Silvestrov, Naejin Kong, Harshith Goka, Kiwoong Park, and Victor Lempitsky.
Resolution-robust large mask inpainting with fourier convolutions. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF winter conference on applications of computer vision, pages 2149–2159, 2022. 1
[55] Richard Szeliski. Computer vision: algorithms and applications. Springer Nature, 2022. 1
[56] Shitao Xiao, Yueze Wang, Junjie Zhou, Huaying Yuan, Xingrun Xing, Ruiran Yan, Chaofan
Li, Shuting Wang, Tiejun Huang, and Zheng Liu. Omnigen: Unified image generation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2409.11340, 2024. 3
[57] Binxin Yang, Shuyang Gu, Bo Zhang, Ting Zhang, Xuejin Chen, Xiaoyan Sun, Dong Chen,
and Fang Wen. Paint by example: Exemplar-based image editing with diffusion models. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages
18381–18391, 2023. 1
[58] Hu Ye, Jun Zhang, Sibo Liu, Xiao Han, and Wei Yang. Ip-adapter: Text compatible image
prompt adapter for text-to-image diffusion models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.06721, 2023. 3,
12
[59] Jiahui Yu, Yuanzhong Xu, Jing Yu Koh, Thang Luong, Gunjan Baid, Zirui Wang, Vijay
Vasudevan, Alexander Ku, Yinfei Yang, Burcu Karagol Ayan, Ben Hutchinson, Wei Han,
Zarana Parekh, Xin Li, Han Zhang, Jason Baldridge, and Yonghui Wu. Scaling autoregressive
models for content-rich text-to-image generation, 2022. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.10789.
8
[60] Kai Zhang, Lingbo Mo, Wenhu Chen, Huan Sun, and Yu Su. Magicbrush: A manually annotated
dataset for instruction-guided image editing, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.10012. 7
[61] Lvmin Zhang, Anyi Rao, and Maneesh Agrawala. Adding conditional control to text-to-image
diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision,
pages 3836–3847, 2023. 1
[62] Zechuan Zhang, Ji Xie, Yu Lu, Zongxin Yang, and Yi Yang. In-context edit: Enabling
instructional image editing with in-context generation in large scale diffusion transformer. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2504.20690, 2025. 3

19

